title:: Slaughterhouse 5
author:: [[Kurt Vonnegut]] 
status:: read
type:: #book
format:: audio
year:: 1969
acquired:: libby/library
topics:: war, time
genre:: #speculative_fiction 
tags::
icon:: 📖
url:: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slaughterhouse-Five
recommendedBy::
start:: [[Apr 29th, 2022]] 
finish:: [[Apr 30th, 2022]] 
rating:: ⭐️
digested::

	- Quotes
		- There were five sexes on Tralfamadore, each of them performing a step necessary in the creation of a new individual.  They looked identical to Billy–because their sex differences were all in the fourth dimension.
		- One of the biggest moral bombshells handed to Billy by the Tralfamadorians, incidentally had to do with sex on Earth.  They said their flying-saucer crews had identified no fewer than seven sexes on Earth, each essential to reproduction.  Again:  Billy couldn’t possibly imagine what five of those seven sexes had to do with the making of a baby, since they were sexually active only in the fourth dimension.
		- The Tralfamadorians tried to give Billy clues that would help him imagine sex in the invisible dimension.  They told him that there could be no Earthing babies without male homosexuals.  There could be babies without female homosexuals.  There couldn’t be babies without women over sixty-five years old.  There could be babies without men over sixty-five.  There couldn’t be babies without other babies who had lived an hour or less after birth.  And so on. It was gibberish to Billy.
	- Liked
	- Summary
		- A classic tale it really is amazing how KV puts himself in the story which is so autobiographical but yet so fictional.   There are a million summaries of Billy Pilgrim who gets unstuck in time when he's about to be taken prisoner in WW II and spends the rest of his live (re)living various aspects of his life.
		- Billy gets taken to Dresden which was a non-military city in Germany, but one night when the POWs were deep underground in the bunker where they lived, the Allies firebombed the city killing over 80,000 people.  In a short interview at the end of this audio book KV said that he'd heard more people were killed in Dresden than any other battle in the history of war (with the possible exception of [Appomattox campaign - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Appomattox_campaign))
		- Later in live Billy is kidnapped by Aliens and brought back to live in a zoo on [Tralfamadore - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tralfamadore), where he learns from the Tralfamorans that they can see all of time and live in any moment they want.
		- There is a great imaginary (I think) character Howard W Campbell who is an American propogandist for the Nazis.    Here's one of his quotes: "To quote the American humorist Kin Hubbard, ‘It ain’t no disgrace to be poor, but might as well be.’ It is in fact a crime for an American to be poor, even though America is a nation of poor. Every other nation has folk traditions of men who were poor but extremely wise and virtuous, and therefore more estimable than anyone with power and gold. No such tales are told by the American poor. They mock themselves and glorify their betters. The meanest eating or drinking establishment, owned by a man who is himself poor, is very likely to have a sign on its wall asking this cruel question: ‘if you’re so smart why ain’t you rich?’ There will also be an American flag no larger than a child’s hand glued to a lollipop stick and flying from the cash register."
		- The one continuity problem I spotted this time (must be my 3rd or 4th reading of this) is that the Tralfamadorans told Billy that human procreation requires 5 or 7 sexes that are only visible in the 4th dimension.   While he's in the zoo they bring a human female for him to mate with and they have a baby.
		- This is such a funny and beautiful book.
	- Permanent notes
		- Read by Ethan Hawke