title:: The Unreal and the Real - Volume 1 What on Earth
author:: [[Ursula K. Le Guin]]
status:: read
type:: #book
format:: audio
year:: 2012
acquired:: library/libby
topics::
genre:: #speculative_fiction
tags::
icon:: 📖
url:: https://www.ursulakleguin.com/unreal-real
recommendedBy::
start:: [[Apr 19th, 2022]]
finish:: [[Apr 29th, 2022]]
rating:: ⭐️
digested::

	- Quotes
	- Liked
	- Summary
		- In the author's intro she described how this is one of two volumes of short stories.  These stories take place on earth and the next volume take place on other planets.    She also mentioned that the novella was her favorite format (but these books are all short stories).   She said that several stories take place in a made up "eastern european" country called Orsinia.
		- Volume One: What on Earth
			-
			- The first story **Brothers and Sisters** appears to be one of these eastern European stories.  It did not seem like speculative fiction at all to me.   Almost like Tolstoy or something.   Its about 2 brothers in a little town.  The older brother, Constantin, is a stud who gets injured in the quarry.  The younger, Stephan, won a scholarship to school but blew it after the first year (imposter syndrome) and is a bookkeeper in town.   Constantin was injured saving a deaf guy who works in the mine.  The family lives in a farm out of town.  The youngest son of that family is in town now working in the mine and the sister comes to visit.   Constantin likes her, Stephan is jealous, they fight, Stephan loses, he rides the horse to the farm and the girl seems to like him.  The end.
			- The next story **A week in the country** features Stephan.  In this one he is in college and goes to the country with a classmate.  When they get there he has pneumonia and spends the week in bed.  The sister falls for him and they decide to marry.  Stephan tells his friend as they go into town and he's happy.  They go to buy tickets back to their school town and the secret police question them.  As they leave the station they grab them.  Stephan discovers they killed his friend.  He was jailed for a few days and released.  He tries to slink out of town the but sister comes and gets him, brings him back home and says she wants to get married as soon as possible.  The end.
			- **Unlocking the air **also takes place in Orisinia.  Stephan is an older man now and he and Bruna from the previous story have a grown daughter.   She starts by trying to get her mom to come to the square with her.  It is Orinia's version of the velvet revolution.  On the bus Bruna remembers how her brother was killed "accidentally" by police looking for someone else.  Stephan meanwhile is trying to stay out of politics and focused on science claiming that you can't do both well.   As the revolution succeeds (or is gaining traction), the daughter is on a committe thinking about what the new government would look like.  They are debating whether to  bring in a former (now exiled?) ruler to make people think there is still some central power in place.   The end (I really didn't follow the point of this one)
			- **Imaginary Countries** takes place in a much older Orsinia.   A well to do family is at their summer house and are packing up.
			- **The Diary of the Rose** was an interesting Orsina story.  (I saw a wiki page where Le Guin said it was some south american country, but obviously one where the secret police rule.) Sam and I listened to this one in the car.   The main character is a young "psychoscopist" who diagnoses patients with mental issues.  This tool allows her to view and see what is happening in her patients brain and she's learned to help people with various forms of depression, etc.   As she takes on a new patient her mentor suggests that she keep a journal of what she is feeling.  Her new patient is labeled a violent psychotic and initially is very scared that she is giving him electro shock therapy.   Over the periods of their sessions he first tries to censor his thoughts but eventually opens up to her.  She begins to realize that he is there for political, not medical reasons.   She is unsure how to recommend a diagnosis.   Eventually she starts hiding her journal thinking that it might implicate her.   When she gets her patient moved to a ward with other patients he tells her of a fellow patient who was an author and intellectual but who has gone through 60 sessions of electro shock and can remember nothing.  When she tries to discuss this with her boss she is told that intellectualism is a kind of pychosis.   She finds the recordings of the pychoscope records of the other patient and sees that he was indeed formerly lucid.   When her patient learns that his pyscoscope records were preserved but that all the books he has written have been destroyed to the point that there are no records of it he tells her that its worse than just censorship its also the lack of privacy.  The story ends with the character saying she will resign as she finds her patient has had electro shock therapy.
			- **Direction of the Road** was the first story I really enjoyed.  It takes the reader some time to figure it out but it is told by a oak tree who talks about slowly approaching people on a road, growing the whole time, momentarily towering over them and then shrinking as it recedes.   So the whole idea is that the person on the road is stationary and its the tree that is moving/growing and then moving away/receding.  In the beginning the tree complains of horses that gallop, but then eventually sees its first car.  These are few and far between but of course the time comes when there are tons of cars and the tree has to approach/recede lots of cars going in different directions all that the same time.  Finally a car attempts to overtake another car, is going to be hit by oncoming traffic and swerves of the road.  Or from the trees perspective it needs to move in front of him blocking that car.   The driver dies and the tree is outraged because it is eternal (at least compared to humans) and has to keep doing this.   Really, really unique story.
			- **The white donkey** was a bit throw away for me.   An indian shepherdess sees a white donkey who we the readers realize is a unicorn.  She befriends it while out with her sheep.  Meanwhile her father arranges for her to marry and she will no longer work in the fields.  She says goodbye to the donkey and cries.
			- **Gwilan's Harp** was another good one.  A fine harp is passed down from master to student.  The main character takes her time as the caretaker of the harp seriously doing lots of travel to play.  A poor music fan in the village offers to drive her in his carriage somewhere, but they crash.  The harp is broken as is her wrist.  When she recovers she marries the man, works on his farm, has sons.  Over time others give her harps as gifts but they aren't the same.  They play music for fun at home, but she is not a pro anymore.   Eventually her husband dies, and she has arthritis.   But she's still there, not a harpist, not a wife, but still there.  She decides for the first time to sing and those who hear are awed.
			- **Mays Lion** The author starts by talking about May (her aunt) who had a farm when she was a kid.  As May got older and the farm was down to just a cow and some cats a mountain lion came and lay down outside of her house.   Eventually she called the sherrif and they came out and shot it.  Then the author retold the story, but in this telling May (or "end of rain" as she called her in this one), realizes that the lion is going to die and sings to her and helps he go to the next plane.
			- **Buffalo Gals** is a kind of Southwestern mystical story.  A girl falls from an airplane and loses her eyes.   A coyote helps her look for it and then brings her to a place where other people are, but the people are all animal spirits.  Blue Jay creates a new eye for the girl and she lives with Coyote.   In time she begins to wonder why she sees the animals as people and Coyote kind of explains that there are two kinds of people.   (Her joke is: the kind who think there are two kinds of people and the kind who don't).   She explains that they are the old spirits and the new people are building cities slowly taking over.   The girl meets horse who rides her to a town, but she gets scared and they go back.  Coyote then takes her and is reckless almost getting shot and then eating salmon that he takes to be an offering from the people.   The salmon is poison and coyote dies.   The girl goes back with chickadee and meets they mysterious grandmother, who tells her its time for her to go back to her people.  She walks off towards the town and Chickadee leads the way.
			- **Horse Camp** is a story about kids that are going off to horse riding camp, but somehow by the end of the story they ARE horses.
			- **The Lost Children** is a 5 minute audio story.  Its the pied piper except this time its the children inside the adults, ephemeral, who follow the piper.  He takes them out of town to the mall where they are forever seduced by the muzak in the mall.
			- **The Water is Wide** about a guy who has a mental breakdown after his wife dies.  His sister, also widowed, visits him in the mental hospital and one day takes him out.  They go swimming in a lake (to die?)
			- **Texts** super short story about woman who sees text everywhere.  She walks on the beach and reads text in some language after the wave recedes.   I thought they would try to translate it but instead she came home and saw text in some lace.   The end.
			- **Sleepwalkers**. This was an interesting story about characters at a motel on the coast in Oregon.  It starts with a playwright who is telling the maid, Ava, not to clean his room until he goes for a run on the beach at 4.  He thinks she's so boring she's not even worth writing about in his character journal.  Other characters are introduced, another regular summer resident at the Inn, the Innkeeper, his wife, a couple who are trying to expose illicit loggin in the region.  Each of them has Ava somewhere in their narrative.   At the end she's having tea with the other resident, who knows she has a son and a tragedy earlier in her life in Utah.  This time she says that her husband killed her daughter.   She came home and saw the gun and killed the husband then put the gun down.  Everyone assumed it was murder suicide.  She got out of town and ended up here.  The end.  (So maybe she's a little more interesting than the first guy thought)
			- **Hand, Cup, Shell** - can't remember
			- **Ether, OR** - Another "multiple character POV".   My mind wandered a bit on this one (it was over an hour long), but its all about the residents of the town "Ether, Oregon".   Slowly, bit by bit it comes out that Ether moves.   The residents all move with it, but once you leave it can be hard to find again.
			- **Half Past Four** - This was a bit of a play on the multi-character POV.  In this one there are lots of little stories where the characters all share the same names, but they are different stories.  Except they kind of aren't.   At first you think the "stories" are just chapters, but then suddenly characters are married to someone else, or older, or gay, or... But they are similar enough (one character is pregant or with a small child throughout most of the stories), that you find your brain making connections to previous stories.   Also certain flowers or colors become motifs that re-appear.   I wouldn't mind reading this one on paper sometime.    This was the last of the earth series.  I think I'll take a break before I start the Space stories...
		-
	- Permanent notes
-