title:: The Maidens
author:: Alex Michaelides
status:: read
type:: #book
format:: audio
year:: 2021
acquired:: library/libby
topics::
genre:: #mystery
tags::
icon:: 📖
url:: https://www.supersummary.com/the-maidens/summary/
recommendedBy:: libby app
start:: [[Jun 28th, 2022]] 
finish:: [[Jun 30th, 2022]] 
rating:: ⭐️
digested::

	- Quotes
	- Liked
	- Summary
		- Marianna is a recently widowed group therapist living in London.   We learn that she grew up in Greece, had a distant father, went to college at Cambridge where she met Sebastian fell in love and got married.   She and Sebastian tried to have kids but struggled.  After her Dad died (and left them a lot of money), they went to Naxios in Greece to relax and try to get pregnant.  While there Sebastian went swimming during bad weather and died.  Marianna blames herself for praying to Demeter and Perephone at their ruined temple for happiness right before this fatal swim happened.
		- A year later, Marianna is still grieving but doing group therapy sessions at her house.  We meet Henry a member of one of her groups who is distracting and fixated on Marianna.  While trying to get Henry out of the house she gets a call from Zoe her niece who tells her that her best friend, Tara, at Cambridge was just found murdered.
		- Marianna takes the train to Cambridge the next day.  On the train she meets Fred, a younger man who takes a fancy to her and periodically shows up in the story on a bicycle, eating fruit, or proposing to Marianna.  I can't figure out why Fred or Henry are even in this story at all except to provide possible "surprise" murderers.
		- Once at Cambridge, Zoe tells Marianna that right before Tara was murdered that she was afraid her professor Edward Fosker, who she was sleeping with and threatened to expose was going to kill her.   Marianna tells her to tell the police who pretty much disregard her story and focus on Tara's drug dealing boyfriend instead.
		- Marianna is convinced that there is something wrong with Edward and gets the police psycologist, Julian, who she knows from Cambridge to let her sit in on her interview with the boyfriend.  Julian, like Henry and Fred, kind of is hitting on Mariana too.  We are learning that while Marianna was shy and socially awkward she must also be amazingly beautiful?  Anyhow Marianna leaves the meeting convinced it was not the boyfriend (they also learn that Edward also bought drugs from this guy), while Julian is.
		- At Tara's memorial service, a group of young women come in all dressed in white.  M learns from Zoe that these are "The Maidens", Edwards special pet students.  In fact his alibi for Tara's murder is that he was doing a study group with the Maidens.  Zoe says she can't stand them, they are all smart and beautiful.
		- Zoe reconnects with her old mentor Clarissa who convinces her that she should stay at Cambridge for a bit.  She gets a room and is brought there by a porter who is the grandson of the famous old porter.   She starts sniffing around asking questions of people like Tara's "bedder" the housekeeper who cleaned Tara's room who she determines is kind of a liar.  She does get access to Tara's room though and discovers a postcard with an ancient greek text on it that roughly translates to the need to sacrifice someone of noble birth (Tara's parents are nobility) furthering her suspicion of Edward who is the Greek tragedy professor.
		- Zoe and Marianna attend one of Edwards lectures which are wildly popular.  He talks about a cult of Demeter and Persephone where people would be drugged and then given a pine cone.  Afterwards she asks if she can talk to some of the Maidens, and she bribes Veronica and Sabrina(?) with drinks.  Veronica talks a lot about how she is going to star in a play while Sabrina ignores her.  They both say Edward is great.
		- The next day Veronica is dead in a similar way to how Tara was.  Marianna gets Julian to show her the body at the crime scene.  They learn that her throat was slit and she was stabbed only after she was dead.  They also see she has a pinecone in her hand and the forensic guys says that Tara did too.  The chief inspector guy comes in and is mad Marianna is there.  She tells him about the Maidens and asks him to talk to Edward.  He tells her to butt out.
		- She runs into Edward who invites her for dinner.   Its super creepy, he has nearly raw lamb, lots of alcohol, has a pinecone which he says is a thing from the cult and tries to give her, and when she looks in his collection from Eurypides she sees the quote from the postcard underlined.   He is also creepily hitting on her and she leaves.
		- As she keeps gathering more info about the murders and Edward she keeps running into Frank who invites her out for drinks which she keeps accepting.    She's presented as a smart character but she keeps meeting Frank and Edward in wierd positions.
		- At one point Frank suggests that Edward may have a helper and later she sees him giving the porter guy a package.  He leaves, climbs over a fence into a graveyard and Mariana follows. There she catches him having sex with Sabrina.  He sees her and calls her out.  Oh yeah Sabrina is dead the next day.
		- Marianna decides to go see her mentor back in London.  She tells her that the Maidens are a group and she should invite them to a group therapy session.  She also says that this is somehow connected to Marianna's own father and finally she suggests Marianna meet with her other tutee who is a forensic psychologist like Julian.  They have a bit of a discussion where he suggests she ask "why" not "who" to get to the bottom of it.  At the end he tells her he's not happy with his job and she suggests there is an opening at the nearby asylum for the criminally insane.
		- When she gets back her room has been broken into and all her stuff has been cut up.  She calls for help, the porter guys says "hmm, maybe you pissed someone off", the police offer to dust for fingerprints, but she then sees a cross carved into the desk which leads her to believe this is Henry (he was showing her similar crosses he carved into himself in that opening scene in the book).
		- She asks Edward for permission for a group session with the Maidens since she thinks they'll only do it if he says so.  He says he wants to come even though she says she doesn't want him.  Edward isn't there at the start and she tries to talk about how he is a father figure for the girls.  He comes in.  She talks about how Iphegenia never fought back when Agamemnon killed her.  The girls all say she saved Greece.   Then Edward says, hey, why didn't you set up a chair for Zoe she's one of us too.
		- Going to confront Zoe she runs into Frank and decides to go back to his place and have a drink.   He tells her he believes in parallel universes and once again proposes.  Again WHATS THE POINT?
		- On her way back from dinner someone is stalking her with a knife.  Its Edward right?  No its Henry.    The police come and take him away.
		- Eventually Zoe confesses that Edward did invite her to join the maidens.  He took her to the woods gave a her a drink with drugs in it while the other girls danced naked.  She said she knew where he hid the knife in a hole in the wall in the woods.   She ends with "I got one of those postcards too!".   (Marianna found one for Veronica earlier).
		- They decide to go find the knife in the woods since Edward only kills at night.  Zoe has to do something first so Marianna waits in her room.  Now throughout the story there have been interludes from the killer telling the story of how he grew up on on a farm (like Edward), how his father had been sadistic and his mother had run away.   While waiting for Zoe, Mariana sees a letter hidden inside her favorite stuffed animal.  As she reads it we realize it is the killers  letter we've been hearing all along.  It concludes that the killer loves Zoe and he's doing it all for her and Zoe has been hiding this letter.
		- When Zoe comes back Marianna realizes shes in on it but decides to go alone with her on a boat into the woods to find the knife.  As the get there Zoe says it wasn't Edward who wrote the letter but Sebastian (her surrogate father in Mariana's mind).   She says that Edward hated Marianna and only married her to get her fathers money.  He'd been sleeping with Zoe since she was 15.   He knew he'd be the first suspect if Marianna was killed, but when Zoe told him about the Maidens the came up with this plan to blame it all on Edward and simply make Marianna one of the victims.   After Sebastian died, Zoe decided to carry it out anyhow.
		- As she's about to stab Marianna, Fred who has followed them jumps out and immediatly gets stabbed.  She fights with Zoe and somehow wins.  The police are called and Zoe gets taken away.
		- In the epilogue we learn that Zoe is in the asylum being attended to by Marianna's friend.  Frank recovered and she's warming up to the idea of him being a boyfriend.  Edward did get fired as he was sleeping with all the Maidens.   Zoe wants to see Marianna.  Her friend tells her they are really just both victims of Sebastian.  She enters the room where Zoe is waiting.  The End.
	- Permanent notes
		- After listening to this I remember why I don't read murder mysteries.   There were so many pointless characters introduced, I guess just to be possible killers.   The Marianna character seemed to be so smart but they she just did stupid things.
		- I was drawn to this book because the blurb said it combined murder mystery with Greek Myth.   Periodically throughout the book Mariana would see a black swan who I guess is supposed to be Persephone.  We thought the Persephone was against her by answering her prayer for happiness by killing Sebastian, but at the end we realize (I guess), that Persephone was helping her.   Pretty light on the greek myths.  I kept waiting for Sebastian to come back from the dead or something.