title:: The Parable of the Sower
author:: [[Octavia Butler]]
status:: read
type:: #book
format:: audio
year:: 1993
acquired:: library/libby
topics::
genre:: #speculative_fiction
tags::
icon:: 📖
url::
recommendedBy::
start:: [[Apr 3rd, 2022]]
finish:: [[Apr 6th, 2022]]
rating:: ⭐️
digested::

	- Quotes
	- Liked
	- Summary
		- OB's books are really depressing!!   I've always been a fan of dystopian future books, but I think that they usually have some kind of "beating the system" element to them.   Her's rarely do and seem to be much more focused on the need for humans to adapt or perish.
		  This one starts in 2022 - it was written in the 90s -- with a character who lives in a walled community
		  
		  The main character, Lorin, has "hyper empathy" which means she feels the pain - and pleasure - of those around her.  She got this because her mother took an alzhiemers drug.   This idea that todays drugs cause the next generations problems also came up in one of the [[Blood Child]]  short stories.
		- While this came up many times in the story, whenever Lorin had to fight off an attacker,I was suprised how little this impacted the story.  The only interesting thin was how on the way they picked up some other "sharers" who all worked as indentured servants - really slaves - at company towns.   They talked about how these slaveholders liked these kinds of people.
		- The world is falling apart, homeless everywhere, govt untrustworthy, a new drug going around that makes people want to set fires.   She recognizes that sooner or later they won't be safe and she is building a "prepper" mentality along with her own religion, "Earthseed" that aims ultimately at humans going to the stars.
		  The prepper mentality pays off when her town gets burnt down, all of her family is killed and she esacapes with her go-bag.   She finds 2 others from the town and they start walking the roads north, surviving, fighting off creeps and predators.   Along the way they pick up a few others, one of whom says he owns land in Northern California.
		  At the end of the book most of them make it to the land only to find the family living there dead, and the buildings burnt down.  They decide to stay and try to build a community there.
		  I hate to say it but I'll probably read the sequel [[Parable of the Talents]].   I know its the last book in the series because apparently she go so depressed after it she got writers block
-