title:: Breakfast of Champions
author:: [[Kurt Vonnegut]] 
status:: read
type:: #book
format:: audio
year:: 1973
acquired:: libby/library
topics::
genre:: #speculative_fiction
tags::
icon:: 📖
url::
recommendedBy::
start:: [[May 19th, 2022]] 
finish:: [[May 21st, 2022]] 
rating:: ⭐️
digested::

	- Quotes
	- Liked
		- I finished listening to this story, where KV introduces himself as Kilgore's creator just as I was riding my bike through Cohoes, NY where Kilgore lives.
	- Summary
		- Hard book to summarize.   Its essentially the story of [[Kilgore Trout]] making his way to Midland City to meet Dwayne Hoover.  Dwayne is going crazy and will read a book that KG wrote that convinces him he is the only person with free will and everyone else is a robot at which point he goes on a rampage injuring several.
		- But KV makes it clear this is going to happen from the get go.  Really this is a book of KV's observations of America with the KT/DH "plot" just there to hang it all on.
		- As always Kilgore Trout is an amazing mechanism for telling wild stories, like the one about the planet where the people communicate via farts and tap dancing and they come to earth to tell a golf pro that his house is on fire and he kills the alien with a 5 iron.   Nice simply plot summaries of Kilgore's stories without the need to write them all out.
		- At the end of the book KV inserts himself into the story.  He meets KT and tells him that he is his creator.  He tells Trout that he will win a nobel prize, but all Kilgore ask his creator is "make me young again".  The End.
	- Permanent notes
		- The version I listened to was narrated by Stanley Tucci.   Apparently there is also [Kurt Vonnegut’s ‘Breakfast of Champions,’ Read by John Malkovich - The New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/22/books/review/kurt-vonneguts-breakfast-of-champions-read-by-john-malkovich.html)
		- I'm not sure this book does well in the audio format since so much of it is in the pictures (drawn by KV).   Apparently Malkovich describes them.  I don't think Tucci does...(at least not 20 mins or so in)
		- This book makes heavy use of the N word.  I had to turn it off today while driving through Arbor Hill with the windows of the car open after walking with Yogi at Tivoli lake