title:: Orfeus
author:: [[Richard Powers]]
status:: read
type:: #book
format:: hardcover
year::
acquired:: borrowed from [[Donald Stauffer]] 
topics::
genre::
tags::
icon:: 📖
url::
recommendedBy::
start:: [[Jun 13th, 2022]] 
finish:: [[Jun 24th, 2022]] 
rating:: ⭐️
digested::

	- Quotes
	- Liked
	- Summary
		- This story followed a week in the life of Peter Els a musician and amateur chemist.  In the course of telling what happens in this week in the present, Peter's entire life story is told.
		- At the opening of the book Peter calls the police because his beloved dog has died.   WHen the cops come to his suburban house and see all his chemistry equipment they get a bit alarmed and tell him to call animal control about his dog.  Instead he buries the dog in the backyard.
		- The next day the FBI arrives believing that Peter might be a bioterrorist, he decides to go to the old folks home where he teaches a music appreciation class and one of his students gives him a phone and tells him he can use a cabin her son has in the woods somewhere.  Over the next week he goes on the lam, hiding out in the cabin for a few days, returning to his home town to gas up the car with a credit card and get more cash, driving to St. Louis to see his ex-wife, then Phoenix to see his friend and collaborator and finally going to see his daughter in California (after stopiing in Barstow for some time to look for graffiti on guard rails).
		- Most of the book is flashbacks.  Peter was a good oboe player who fell hard for a cellist in high school who turned him on to all kinds of funky music.  He wanted to be a chemist but because of her pursued music instead.   After they graduate she moves to England and dumps him.
		- He goes to college in Indiana with a very avant garde music program (John Cage was there).   He meets his wife by hiring her to sing one of his compositions.  At a John Cage "happening" he meets his friend Roger who becomes his collaborator and choreographs and directs his masters piece.  He's totally out there and his instructors push him farther.   There are long, long descriptions of classical pieces throughout the book which are pretty boring if you don't know them.
		- After college he and his now wife move to Boston.  She's pregnant and gets a job teaching at a school while he stays home with their daughter.  He gets odd jobs like being a guard at a museum and keeps composing in his head.  He plays wacky music games with his daughter as she grows older.  His wife becomes frustrated that he doesn't just get a teaching job like all other musicians do.
		- His friend and collaborator comes to town saying he's got a rich sponsor and he wants Peter to write the music for some avant garde project.  Wife is pissed.  He starts spending more and more time in New York and becomes estranged from wife and daughter.  Eventually they get divorced and he lives a wierd existence in NYC.  Wife remarries.  Daughter becomes a punk rocker and doesn't really talk to him on her weekly visits.
		- He fights with his collaborator, gets by as a plumbers assistant, eventually gets a cabin in New Hampshire and becomes a hermit for many years.  Collaborator shows up saying he has a commision to do an opera at the Met.  They walk around in the snow, brainstorming ideas and hit on a story about how some religious wackos took over Munich for a brief period in the 1500s.  They work on it for years and just as they are about to go live in NYC, Waco and David Koresh hit the news.  Collaborator is thrilled, Peter freaks out.  Show is a huge success but Peter can't deal with it.  He retreats to New Hampshire and has a huge fight with collaborator because he won't allow any recordings or additional performances even though the show is hot.
		- Years later a former student runs the music department at some school in PA, says he loved that show and offers him a job.  He takes it and becomes a normal person again.  Resumes relationship with daughter who buys him a dog.  (At some point his estranged mother dies and his estranged brother tells him she left him a lot of money. This all happens in London and he reconnects with high school girl friend who wants to get back together but he freaks out and goes back)
		- After a while the recession hits and he is asked to retire.  He starts tinkering with chemistry which brings us to the beginning.
		- When he visits his former collaborator in Phoenix he is living in a memory care unit where the patients are part of a drug trial.  He's convinced he's getting the placebo.  He convinces Peter that the noteriaty that he is getting (the world is hunting for the musical bio-hacker who they think may be responsible for some deaths in Atlanta) and its an opportunity for him to do his best work.  Peter says that he was trying to encode DNA with music.
		- The police arrive at the old folks home, but the collaborator gives him a car and he gets away.  He starts a twitter account and starts tweeting wierd messages about his "project".  He visits his daughter and plays a song he wrote for her right before his wife dumped him.  The police arrive at her house.  He walks out grabbing a vase so it looks like he's got a beaker or something...essentially suicide by cop.
		- The end
	- Permanent notes
		- I did not love this book like I loved [[The Overstory]] and [[Bewilderment]].  Maybe if I was more of a classical music fan.
		- Its interesting that I struggle reading a regular hard cover book these days.  My phone is always in my pocket, but if you don't have the book handy, you can't read it.