title:: Blood Child
author:: [[Octavia Butler]]
status:: read
type:: #book
format:: kindle
year:: 1995
acquired:: library/libby
topics::
genre:: #speculative_fiction
tags:: #short_stories
icon:: 📖
url::
recommendedBy::
start:: [[Mar 28th, 2022]]
finish:: [[Apr 4th, 2022]]
rating:: ⭐️
digested::

	- Quotes
	- Liked
	- Summary
		- Blood Child - 1984 was a story that took place on a planet where humans helped the local species "breed".  They lived on a "preserve" where a family would include all the humans plus the [[T'lik]] who are like big centipedes.  In a human (usually male?) life a T'lic might insert their eggs into them 2 or 3 times.   Later the T'lic needs to surgically remove the grubs who will otherwise eat the human from the inside.  -- Strange story.  Some people said it was a metaphor for slavery, but in the afterward by Butler she said it wasn't, it was about surviving.
		- The Evening and the Morning and the Night -1987 is about a character who has a disease called Duryea-Gode Disease.  People with this become self destructive.   Another survival tale it focuses on how she controls her life through diet but expects to eventually succumb to the disease.  This one has an interesting twist with a ray of hope as she goes to a "home" for people with this disease and learns that some people with the disease can actually communicate with others and prevent them from hurting themselves.  It ends with her thinking about her future more optimistically.
		- Near of Kin - 1979 is a very short story where a woman is going through her dead mother's things with her uncle in the room.   She was raised primarily by her grandmother.   She realizes during the story that her uncle is actually her dad.
		- Speech Sounds - 1984 is about a character living in a world where a disease has taken away many peoples ability to speak (the character has lost her ability to read).   Like many Butler stories the world is completely populated with desperate street people all trying to survive by stealing from each other.  She meets a man who seems to want to help people.  They decide to live togehter but on the way back to her house, he helps a woman who is being stabbed by a man.  He shoots the man, but gets killed int he process.  Two small children come out who can still speak, and the woman takes them home.
		- Crossover - 1971 is a pretty sad story about an alcoholic woman with a crappy factory job.  She comes home and finds an old boyfriend just out of jail, but decides to hook up with a wino at the liquor store instead.  I think she wrote this when she was working factory jobs and it may have been the first story she sold.
		- Amnesty - 2003 is like Blood Child in that is more "science fiction-y".  Both stories involve aliens and humans working together.  In this story a race that seems like plants has landed in several desert areas of the earth.  When they first came they kidnapped humans and experimented on them.  The aliens are "communities" that "enfold" humans.  During that time they learned to communicate and they now are paying humans to work with them.  The main character was one of the original kidnapped and she now works to help new recruits understand what is going to happen to them during their stint of service.    She explains that she did this because the Communities treat her better than the human government did when she was originally released.
		- The Book of Martha - 2003 was probably my favorite story in that it wasn't completely depressing.  In this book God tells a woman Martha that she can do anything she likes to try to improve the world for humanity.   They talk through different scenarios and she finally decides that she wants to give people vivid and pleasurable dreams, even though God tells her that this will prevent her from being a writer since people will be less interested in books when it happens.  Yes, it was a hidden distopia, but at least there weren't desperate people killing each other like in most of her books!
		- There were also two essays, Positive Obsession - 1989 and Furor Scribendi 1993 where Butler talks about the craft.   She's a fan of writing everyday no matter what, basically her belief that you need a "positive obsession" to be succesful.  One thing she talked about that resonated with me was her advice to authors to never not fix something that isn't quite right.   She says others will still find flaws, but an author should never release something with flaws that they know about.
	- Permanent Notes
		- Originally published in 1995 I read the expanded 2005 edition that added The Book of Martha and Amnesty