title:: Cats Cradle
author:: [[Kurt Vonnegut]]
status:: read
type:: #book
format:: audio
year:: 1963
acquired:: library/libby
topics::
genre:: #speculative_fiction
tags::
icon:: ðŸ“–
url::
recommendedBy::
start:: [[May 23rd, 2022]]
finish:: [[Jun 1st, 2022]]
rating:: â­ï¸
digested::

	- Quotes
		- At one point John met Philip Castle (author of the history, and son of Julian Castle who created the hospital).  He told him how they had bubonic plague at one point and the bodies were piled high, Julian began to lose it and said: "Son, someday all this will be yours".
		- [TOP 25 BOKONON QUOTES | A-Z Quotes](https://www.azquotes.com/quotes/topics/bokonon.html)
	- Liked
	- Summary
		- The narrator begins by saying he is a Bokonist and introduces the concept of a _karass_ which is a group of people who are connected for some reason.   He introduces members of his karass as Dr Felix Hoenikker, the father of the atom bomb and his three children Frank, Angela and Newt.   He got connected to them when he wrote them asking for memories of Hiroshima day for a book he is writing.
		- Only Newt replied.   He was six years old, but remembers that his father was playing with string (which came from a book written by a prisoner about a bomb that destroyed the entire world and was sent to Dr. Hoenikker) and showed him a cat's cradle which completely freaked young Newt out.  Later in the book Newt is known to say "see the cat?  see the cradle?" when there is nothing to see.   John learns that Newt is a midget who had a famous affair with a Ukranian ballerina midget who broke off their engagement and went back to the Soviet Union.
		- Later, John goes to Illium where Dr. Hoenikker worked and meets his "boss" Dr. Asa Breed who brags about how they do pure research at the facility.   He talked about how the military came in once complaining about how Marines had to always wade through mud and how they wished that they could have a tiny "pill" that would make the mud turn hard.   As he is escorted out of the office he asks the receptionist about a picture on Dr. H's desk.   She tells him its a picture of stacked cannonballs somewhere that interested him.   As the story goes on we learn that Dr. H really DID create something that would turn water into ice with a melting point of >100 degrees.   This "ice-9" crystal was given to his kids who split it up and carry it around with them in thermoses.
		- He also learns (but doesn't meet) a bit more about Frank and Angela.  Both social outcasts, Frank worked in the model shop and Angela played the clarinet.   He visits Dr. H's grave and sees a huge obelisk, but realizes that it says "Mother".  The kids used the Nobel Prize money to buy it.  Dr. H's grave is a tiny cube that says "Father".  John also visits Jack's model shop where Jack shows him the incredible model Frank built and says that he left to Florida and somehow got involved with a gang that was using the model shop there for criminal activity.  We later learn that while Jack loves Frank, Frank was having an affair with Jack's wife.
		- Later John is sent to the island nation of San Lorenzo to do a story about a guy who opened a charitable hospital there.   He's excited to go because he has seen a picture of Mona Monzano the adopted daughter of the island's dictator Papa Monzano, and has fallen in love with her.   He later realizes that Frank is now on the island and is a general and engaged to Mona!
		- During the flight to San Lorenzo he meets Angela and Newt who are going for the engagement party.  He learns that Angela has a dashing husband who runs a secret weapons facility.   He also meets the Mintons, the soon to be ambassador and his wife (he introduces this couple as a _duprass_ or a karass of two), and Crosby, a blithering capitalist who wants to build a bicycle factory there and his wife who is constantly meeting Hoosiers and telling them to call her "Mom".  He introduces this Indiana connection as a _granfallon_ or a false karass.
		- On the flight the Mintons show him a unpublished history of San Lorenzo where realizes that the island has been conquered and given up without a fight many times over and has no redeeming qualities.  During the war a deserter named Edward McCabe and fellow wayword soul named Lionel Boyd Johnson are washed up on San Lorenzo.   Johnson becomes Bokonon who invents a religion and McCabe becomes the island's latest dictator and pretends to outlaw Bokonism.   As time went by they each became more serious in their roles.  When McCabe died, Papa Monzano kept up the threat to put anyone practiciing Bokonism on "the hook".
		- When they arrive in San Lorenzo, Papa keels over from cancer and tells Frank that he will become the new leader.  John sees Mona rubbing her foot against a pilots foot which he learns is the Bokonist practice called _boku-maru_ which is the mingling of souls achieved by touching the soles of the feet together.
		- Frank later contacts John and tells him that HE should become the new president.  John is reluctant until he tells him that he probably should marry Mona as well.  Mona agrees and while John is nervous she suggest boku-maru.  Afterward John says he doesn't want her to do that with anyone else and she says she loves everyone and refuses to marry him, so John changes his mind.
		- The next day is the ceremony to celebrate the 100 Martyrs of San Lorenzo who died in some ridiculous manner during the war.  It is set to include the "air force" (six old prop planes) shooting at targets painted like Hitler and other bad guys in the sea.
		- Before the ceremony they visit Papa to get his OK about John becoming president.  He doesn't care.  He keeps asking for ice, tells John to capture and kill Bokonen, then says he is a Bokonist and gets the Bokonist last rites.  Later his attending phsysican comes out and says that he took something from an amulet around his neck, said something  like "now i destroy the world", put it in his mouth and froze solid.  John realizes this was ice-9 given to him by Frank.   The Dr. is also killed when he touches Papa.  John gets all three kids and they attempt to clean up the mess, melting all the ice on a hot plate, and ordering a funeral pyre for Papa which they can throw the bodies on.   John asks Frank how he could have given Papa the ice-9 and we realize that Newt gave his to Zinka and Angela gave hers to her husband so now both the USSR and the USA have Ice-9.  The three outcasts all traded their ice-9 for affection or validation. After everything is cleaned up they go out to watch the ceremony.
		- During the ceremony, one of the planes engines dies and it crashes into the castle.  As part of it falls away Papa's bedroom is exposed and he slides out into the see which immediately turns to ice.  The sky fills with tornados and John and Mona escape into an underground bunker where they spend about 4 days.   When they come out they walk around searching for life but there is none.  Eventually they find a place where most of the San Lorenzens have committed suicide by touching the ground and touching their mouths.  At the center of this is a note from Bokonen saying that he told the people that God must want everyone dead so they should kill themselves.  At that point Mona does this too.
		- John is later picked up by Newt, Frank and the Crosbys who have survived and are driving around in a taxi.   They manage to survive for many months by thawing out ice-9 to drink, frozen animals to cook and scavenging canned goods.  Mrs Crosby is sewing an american flag which she want's John to put on top of the mountain in San Lorenzo.  Later he is driving Newt into town to scavenge paint and they see Bokonen on the street and ask him what to do.  He says that if he was a younger man he would climb the mountain, thumb his nose at god and kill himself with ice-9.  The End.
		- f course this summary misses the key thing in the book which is the constant references to the Books of Bokonen and the "calpysos" he has. Bokonen freely admits that his religion is _foma_ or lies.
			- "I wanted all things to seem to make some sense, So we could all be happy, yes, instead of tense. And I made up lies, so they all fit nice, and I made this sad world a paradise" ~ Bokonen
		- Its simply there to give the people of San Lorenzo false hope and forget how miserable they are.  Cats Cradle is a game with no point (just like life?) and the cat and the cradle aren't really there.
	- Permanent notes
		- I didn't realize this was written before [[Slaughterhouse 5]] in the "lean years" for KV.   It really must have been something to have written such a masterpiece and have no one really notice it.  (Insert appropriate Bokonist phrase here).
		- In the interview after the book, they talked about [[Catch 22]].  While I'm sure I have read this it might be a good one to put on the reading list!