title:: Pattern Master
 author:: [[Octavia Butler]]
 status:: read
 type:: #book
 format:: kindle
 year:: 1976
 acquired:: sketchy download
 topics::
 genre:: #speculative_fiction
 tags::
 icon:: 📖
 url::
 recommendedBy::
 start:: [[Apr 7th, 2022]]
 finish:: [[Apr 19th, 2022]]
 rating:: ⭐️
 digested::

	- Quotes
	- Liked
		- This was probably my least favorite in the series.  In many ways it is OB's most "classic" scifi story with wild creatures and evolved humans, but the story was pretty vanilla and didn't really have any of the themes about cooperation/survival that she brings out much more strongly in her later work.
	- Summary
		- Final book in the [Patternist Series](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Patternist_series) this one takes place (hundreds?, thousands? of )years after the Clays Ark and Mind of my Mind series.  The offspring of the Clays Ark infested humans are basically at war with the Patternists who first came into being in Mind of My Mind  Although this is the last book in the series it was actually the first one she wrote.
		- The main character Teray has just finished school and, along with his wife Iray, he is becoming an apprentice in the home of a Housemaster.   As I read this book I kind of pictured a Planet of the Apes like world.   The Patternmasters live what seems to be pretty low tech lives, everyone living in the circle of a Housemaster,  all of whom rollup to the Pattern Master.   Also in the houses are Mutes or servants.   The concept of Mutes were first introduces in Mind of My Mind when Mary becomes the first Pattern Master, this is the derogative term the telepaths use to refer to humans who are non telepaths.
		- The other "characters" (they are really just nameless monsters) are the Clay Arks, the offspring of the humans who were infected by the disease brought back by the one surviving astronaught in Clay's Ark.   These creatures are strong and fast, but are kind of like animals, although they can speak.   Its implied that as the ClayArks multiplied that normal humanity was more or less wiped out.  One of the final scenes in the book takes place in the remains of what they refer to as an "ancient mute city".   Somehow the Patternists got to a level of balance (pemanent war) with the clayarks, but the mutes are more or less wiped out and remain only as patternist servants.
		- So, on the way to Teray's new house they stop at another Housemaster, Conransee's house.   He introduces Teray's master to an "artist" someone who can infuse objects with the feelings of someone else, even an animal or a clayark.   He offers to give him the artist in exchange for Teray.   It turns out that Coransee basically controls this other Housemaster and so it happens, which is a big downer for Teray as he is no longer on a path to being a Housemaster himself.  In fact he loses Iray since the Housemaster has access to all the women in his house.
		- Coransee eventually explains that he and Teray are the only 2 brothers whose parents are the Patternmaster and his first wife.   The Patternmaster, Rayal, is old and Coransee wants to take his place.  He tells Teray he can have his house when this happens but only if he agrees to having something put in his brain that would allow Coransee to control him.
		- Teray can't go for this and doesn't know what to do since he knows Coransee (who is stronger) will eventually kill him.  He meets Amber, the house's healer who he learns also hates Coransee.   Teray's original housemaster comes back with an emissary from the Patternmaster  to complain about how Teray was stolen from him, but he rules in favor of Coransee even though its clear that he IS angling to become patternmaster.   He secretly sends a message to Teray that if he can make it to the city where the Rayal is, Forsythe, he will get sanctuary there.
		- Travel in this time is very dangerous with gangs of clayarks hunting patternists.  Teray actually catches one who tells him that they know that Teray and Coransee are the sons of the patternmaster and want to kill him.  He and Amber set out together on horses.  By "linking" they make their telepathic power stronger and they can sense and kill clayarks before they are in weapons range.   They kind of fall in love, as Amber teaches Teray new tricks and lets herself become pregnant.   Teray asks her to be his wife but she says that she wants to be her own housemaster.
		- Before they get to Forsythe, Coransee and 10 others catch them.  At this point I thought the book really dragged.  They spent several days together knowing that it was going to come down to a fight.   Eventually it does happen and somehow Teray wins.  (The fights are these strange mental battles.  They each have "shields" around their minds, but they can also "strike" each other which causes openings in their shields).    Rayal reaches out to Teray to tell him he has been waiting for him to kill Coransee because he didn't have what it takes to be Patternmaster and when Teray gets to Forsythe he will be the new patternmaster.  The end.
		-
	- Permanent notes
		- Butler's first published novel, 1976's Patternmaster, was the first book in this series to appear. From 1977 until 1984, she published four more Patternist novels: Mind of My Mind (1977), Survivor (1978), Wild Seed (1980) and Clay's Ark (1984). Until Butler began publishing the Xenogenesis trilogy in 1987, all but one of her published books were Patternist novels (1979's Kindred was the exception).
		- Apparently  OB never liked [[Survivor]] and she has "removed it" from the series.
		- I couldn't find (or maybe didn't want to pay for?) this book on Amazon so I found a site [Patternmaster: The Patternist Series by Octavia E. Butler - free ebooks download](https://ebook-hunter.org/patternmaster-the-patternist-series-by-octavia-e-butler_533180436644891b5137b0e8/) that allowed me to download it in mobi format.    I convinced myself that I wouldn't do this for an author that was living...
		- Once you have a mobi format file you can [Send it to your kindle via email](https://www.amazon.com/gp/sendtokindle/email)
		- The formatting was a little wierd (way to many hyphens), but it was definitely readable.