title:: Wish You Were Here
author:: [[Jodi Picault]]
status:: read
type:: #book
format:: audio
year:: 2021
acquired:: library/libby
topics:: #covid 
genre::
tags::
icon:: 📖
url::
recommendedBy::
start:: [[Jun 4th, 2022]] 
finish:: [[Jun 5th, 2022]] 
rating:: ⭐️
digested::

	- Quotes
		- "Busy" is just a euphemism for being so focused on what you don't have that you never notice what you do.  Its a defense mechanism because if you stop hustling, you pause, you'll wonder why you wanted all those things in the first place.
	- Liked
	- Summary
		- Diana is an NYC resident with a plan for her life.  The daughter of a famous photo news journalist her mother was never present, but she adored her father who was an art restorer.   Her career path is in art sales and she is working her way up at Southeby's where she has just managed to convince a thinly veiled Yoko Ono character to hire them to sell her [[Toulouse-Lautrec]] painting with them.   She managed to do this by convincing her that it should be a private sale for couples only since the painting belongs to people who are in love like she was to the thinly veiled John Lennon character.    As the book opens she is learning that the Yoko character wants to pause the auction due to the uncertainty of the fear of covid.   This puts a crimp in her career plan and she complains to her friend Rodney, but he tells her to just go on vacation.
		- Part of her plan is marrying her also ambitious boyfriend Finn who is a surgeon resident.   She has snooped in his underwear drawer and knows he has an engagement ring which she expects him to use on their planned trip to the [[Galapagos Islands]].   The story takes place in the very very early days of Covid and Finn tells her that their hospital expects to be slammed any day by the virus.   He tells her he can't go on the trip but she should go without him which she does.
		- Her luggage is lost en route and as he ferry arrives at Isabela Island a mass of tourists tries to get on.  She learns that the island is close for two weeks due to Covid but decides to go anyhow.   As she gets to her hotel she sees them closing it up.  With no luggage, little money, no cell signal, and no ability to speak Spanish she begins to regret her decision.   A woman who cleans at the hotel takes pity on her and brings her to her house where she has an apartment in the basement which she lets her use.
		- Starving, Diana looks for food but everything is closed, she comes to a Tortoise park and sees that they are eating fruit from a tree so she climbs in and tries to grab some.   Someone yells "Cuidado" and tackles her.   Afraid that she's being attacked she says "Don't hurt me", but the guy says "You already did that to yourself" and she realizes her hand is burning due to touching the poisonous fruit that only the tortoises can eat.  (She later sees that there are signs all over, even in English, warning about this.).  Her rescuer obvious disdains her.   Over time we will learn that this is Gabriel, the son of "Abuela" who gave her a place to stay.
		- When she gets back to the apartment she sees that Abuela has left her some food for which she is grateful.   A bit more relaxed she explores the island over the next couple of days discovering a lagoon where she plays with a sea lion and is poked by penguins.   As she returns to the doc she meets Beatrice who she had seen crying on the ferry to the island.  Beatrice is cutting herself.  Diana tries to talk to her but Beatrice shuns her.
		- While Diana is writing Finn postcards which she doesn't know how to mail, she gets occasional bursts of connectivity where she gets texts and later emails from Finn telling her how horrible the situation is in the hospital where he is working.  Its a great description of the early days of Covid from the eyes of a health care provider in an NYC hospital.
		- Diana runs into Beatrice while she is picking up garbage on the beach and she begins to connect with her talking about artists who make things out of trash.  Over time we learn that Beatrice is Gabriel's daughter and she is sad because while living on a more populated island for school with a host family she fell in love with the daughter who isn't or won't allow herself to be gay.   Her father used to be a tour guide and lived in town but now lives in a shack in the middle of nowhere trying to farm and its all unbearable.   One day Diana is in Abuela's house for a meal and Beatrice is there crying.  While she tries to communicate with her Gabriel comes in and she tells him that she is cutting herself.  This eventually breaks the ice between them and Gabriel begins to trust Diana and showing her around the island.
		- Beatrice also shows Diana around, offering to mail her postcards by putting stamps on them and giving them to the fishermen that go to the bigger island.  One day the walk to an old prison and discover a cell signal.   She calls Finn who tells her he wishes she never went and Diana can't understand why he told her to go if he felt that way.
		- After two weeks, Diana is ready to return home but realizes there is still no way off.  Her trip extends to four months.   She begins bartering with locals by trading sketches of people for food and clothing.   Her friendship with Beatrice and Gabriel grows.   She keeps hearing horror stories from Finn.  She learns that her mother is dying of covid in the memory care unit that she put her in when police brought her to her years earlier after she was wandering Central Park.   There are some strained Facetime calls using the hotel internet, but eventually her mother dies.   That night as Diana is grieving both for her mom and the lack of any relationship between them, she and Gabriel have sex.   Beatrice sees them in the morning and freaks out so she and Gabriel search the island for her and eventually find her with Beatrice telling Gabriel everything.
		- Diana avoids Gabriel for a few weeks and eventually they go out for a swim together.  He tells her that things are better with Beatrice and Diana feels like they can be friends despite what happens.  Then she is caught in a riptide.  Gabriel tries to rescue her but she can feel that he's losing energy so she untangles herself from him and feels herself getting pulled down.
		- When she wakes up she is in the hospital on a ventilator.  She's in the covid ward in Finn's hospital in NYC.  She never went to the Galapagos, but passed out the night after their conversation when she refused Finn's suggestion to go alone.  She's been in a coma for 5 days despite believing that she was gone for 4 months.   As she slowly recovers she can't shake how real everything was.  She talks to shrinks who tell her this type of thing isn't uncommon but she can't let it go.  After a month or so she goes home and realizes that her mother isn't dead.   She starts visiting her standing outside her screened in porch.   She researches other people with stories like her and finds a guy that was unconscious for 30 minutes but lived for years in another life getting married, being a Muslim, and having a daughter.  He is convinced he can find them again.
		- She struggles to reconnect to Finn.   She takes up art again.  One day she paints the lagoon from Isabela Island and that night she dreams she is waking up from the drowning with Gabriel.   One day while taking a walk she runs into the Yoko Ono character and she tells he everything that has happened.   Yoko lady asks he if maybe Gabriel isn't looking for her somehow.   Finn proposes.  She says no.   3 years go by and she gets a degree in Art Therapy and her friend Rodney (who relocated to his family in NOLA when they were laid off from Sotheby's) moves in with her.
		- She finally saves enough to go to the Galapogos.  Many things are like she remembered (she thinks because she saw them in a guide book before her first trip), but many things are different.  One day she is at the Tortoise place and things a baby is going to fall, she starts to climb in to save it and heres a voice behind her say "Cuidado!".  The End.
	- Permanent notes
		- The one thing that bugged me was the elaborate imaginary Yoko Ono and John Lennon and Beatles with different names.   At one point while visiting her mother she meets a husband who's wife is in there and he sings Michelle by the Beatles.  His wife says "I love you, i love you, i love you".  Its a cute scene but if the Beatles exist why the fake ones?