title:: Parable of the Talents
author:: [[Octavia Butler]]
status:: read
type:: #book
format:: audio
year:: 1998
acquired:: library/libby
topics::
genre:: #speculative_fiction
tags::
icon:: 📖
url::
recommendedBy::
start:: [[Apr 7th, 2022]]
finish:: [[Apr 12th, 2022]]

	- finish::
	  rating:: ⭐️
	  digested::
	- Quotes
	- Liked
	- Summary
		- This book was less depressing than the first.   It started a few years after the first book ended with the Acorn community in full swing.   All the characters from the first book were living happy and secure lives in their little NorCal community
		- At some point Lorin is looking for a few lost community members and discovers her brother Marcus who she thought died in the original attack at Robledo that started her journey.  She brings Marcus back and he recovers from his injuries when he was a slave.
		- The concept of a "slave collar" is brought to the forefront in this book Marcus had one of these collars which allows the owner to inflict pain (and possibly pleasure) without harming the slaves body.
		- As Marcus recovers he tells the story of how he was adopted by a homeless couple after the fire in Robledo and becomes a street preacher taking after his father.   Eventually all the slums of Robledo are bull dozed.  He loses his adopted family and ends up on the road, eventually enslaved.   He tells Lorin he wants to be a preacher of the bible and she encourages him to preach at the Earthseed meetings knowing he'll be questioned.  He eventually leaves.
		- In the meantime a character is running for president who says that he'll "make america great again".  (This was written in the 90s).   Jarred is a former christian minister who says all the problems are the non christians.   He wins the election and gangs of thugs with crosses start taking homeless and drug dealeers and killing them.
		- At some point, shortly after Lorin and Biancoli have had a baby daughter, the thugs attack acorn with armored vehicles and use a gas that paralyzes adults (and kills small humans).   We learn through the diary of Lorins daughter that she and the other children were given antidotes and taken to be adopted by Christian families.  Zara, who came with Lauren from Robledo, is killed by the gas and Lorin's husband Biancoli was also killed in the attack.
		- The suriving members are essentially enslaved for the next 17 months forced to wear collars, work and listen to Christian sermons.   Men and women are seperated and the "teachers" regularly rape the female inmates.  "Camp Christian" is essentially a re-education camp for the wayward, but not one is ever released although many new people come in during the months.  Eventually there is a landslide that crushes the cabin with the master controller for the collars and the inmates kill the rest of the guards.
		- Back on the road the surviving Earthseed members separate looking for the lost children.   Lorin finds Marcus preaching at a Christian America outpost and tells him what happened.  He initially doesn't beleive here but eventually agrees that some "non sactioned" Jarred followers have done things like this.  He tried to convince her that the only way she can find her daughter is to join Christian America.
		- In short journal entries at the beginning of each chapter we learn what happened to baby Larkin.  She was adopted out to a CA family, who treated her like shit and eventually leaves at 18.  Marcus is a big wig preacher at this point and eventually adopts her, telling her her parents are dead.
		- Meanwhile Lorin rebuilds Earthseed.  The world has started to normalize.  Jarred is not re-elected (he started and lost a war against Canada and seceding Alaska), and she builds followers.
		- The book ends many years later and is told primarily from the daughters point of view.  She gets interested in Earthseed, sees pictures of the founder and realizes that she is near her home in upstate NY.  She visits and they connect, but there is a big distance between the two.   Lauren cannot believe that Marcus has stolen her daughter from her.
		- The book ends with Lorin at 80 plus years old watching the destiny of Earthseed realized as all the members are boarding ships to visit new planets.   Her only regret is that Larkin would not come and she rues how Marcus completely screwed her
		- There was supposed to be more to this series, but apparently OB go serious writers block brought on by the depressing subject matter.  She wrote one other book [[Fledgeling]] a vampire story.   I might have been interested to learn what Earthseed did in the stars, but I'm glad for the break.
		- OB hits the theme of "positive obsession" hard in these books.   Lorin's obsession with Earthseed is essentially what allows her to survive.   She continuously finds people who are willing to follow her, but she is clearly the flame that drives them forward.
	- Permanent notes
-
- Used the app [Short Stories And Audios on the App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/short-stories-and-audios/id1577983641), which is great if you can't find an audio book elsewhere.   It has a wierd add model and sometimes lost track of where I was.
-