title:: Manhattan Beach
author:: [[Jennifer Egan]]
status:: read
type:: #book
format:: #audio
year:: 2017
acquired::  library/libby
topics:: #WWII 
genre:: #historical_fiction 
tags::
icon:: 📖
url:: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Manhattan_Beach_(novel)
recommendedBy::
start:: [[Jun 19th, 2022]] 
finish:: [[Jun 23rd, 2022]] 
rating:: ⭐️
digested::

	- Quotes
	- Liked
	- Summary
		- This book follows the lives of 3 characters Eddie Kerrigan, Anna Kerrigan and Dexter Styles
		- It opens from the perspective of 12(ish) year old Anna as her father Eddie takes her to visit the house of Dexter near the beach sometime during the depression.   We learn that Dexter is a rich gangster who is "interviewing" Eddie for some type of position.  During the visit Anna and Dexters kids go for a walk on the winter beach and Dexter comes out and talks to Anna who has taken off her shoes and put them in the water.  He decides that she is strong which appears to bode well for Eddie's job prospects.
		- When they return home to Anna's mother Agnes and her crippled sister Lydia we learn that this was kind of a secret trip.  Eddie is "bag man" for a local irish hood who runs the waterfront near where they live in Brooklyn.  Years earlier Eddie had saved this man and another from drowning in the rip tide at Coney Island.   His "reward" is to make subsistence wages delivering and picking up bags of cash.   Eddie is very good at being discreet.  We learn that before the crash he was prosperous and in fact borrows the car that he used to own that is now owned by gangster.  He talks to the gangster when returning the car and tells him that Lydia needs an expensive wheel chair.   The boss, who likes him, does not give him the money but recommends that he borrow it from a loan shark.
		- We learn that Agnes was a Zigfield follies girl as was Eddie's sister Bianca.   Once Lydia was born Agnes devoted herself to taking care of her.   Eddie resents Lydia.   He loves Anna, but after seeing Dexter talk to her, resolves not to take her on his errands anymore.
		- The story then moves 7 or 8 years into the future.   Anna is grown and Eddie has been missing for years.   Anna is working in the naval yard doing quality control on bolts for ships and then helping her mom take care of Lydia.   At one point they take her for her annual visit to a doctor who tells them that they are doing a great job with Lydia but it occurs to Anna that this doctor never tries to make her better and she gets it into her mind that she wants to take Lydia to the sea, an idea that her mother resists.
		- One night Anna goes out to a nightclub.   Someone mentions that Dexter Styles owns the place and she goes up to his table.  He is polite to her and asks her name.   She says her name is Anna Feeny.
		- Anna starts a program at the naval yard to become a diver.   Her Lt. hates the fact that she is a woman, but she is one of the best divers and eventually earns his respect as well as becoming friends with a couple of the guys (one a black man, one a transplant from California), in her crew.   While leaving the Naval yard one day she happens to run into Dexter Styles who offers her a ride home.  She asks instead if he could drive her another time, explaining the situation with Lydia and her desire to go to the beach.   They agree to go the following Sunday.
		- In these chapters we begin to hear more of the story from Dexters perspective and learn about the boyhoods of both Dexter and Eddie.  Dexter's father ran a restaurant but he was attracted to the mob guys who he paid protection to and he introduced himself to them much to his father's chagrin.    Early in his mob career he woooed and married a beautiful girl who's father was a naval admiral in WW1 and was now a wealthy banker.   His father in law and "Mr Q" the NY mob boss became his surrogate parents.   Both like him as he is extremely capable.
		- Dexter picks up Lydia and Anna on Sunday and they go to the beach at his house when his family is at his in-laws.   When they take Lydia to the beach she starts speaking for the first time in years and everyone is touched by the incident.   Somehow this gives Dexter the idea that he wants to become "more legitimate" and he later meets with Mr Q to suggest that they start working with "uncle" (Uncle Sam presumably) so that after the war their organization can have more power.   In a weird, everything I say is the opposite of what I mean, way, Mr. Q rejects his idea and it somehow comes out that Dexter did make one mistake before...hiring Eddie Kerrigan.
		- Meanwhile, Anna tells her mother about what happened with Lydia.  Bianca gets one of her men friends to drive them all up to a beach near the GW bridge and Lydia again starts talking.   She dies a couple of days later.    Shortly after this Agnes decides to return to Minnesota where her family is, but Anna wants to stay and keep working in the naval yard.   Before Agnes leaves she tells Anna that she thinks Eddie is alive because he left everything in order with money in the bank for the family.  She theorized that people who get whacked don't have time to take care of this.
		- With Agnes and Lydia gone, and with her working with men who don't socialize with her she becomes very lonely.   At one point she visits Mr. Voss her supervisor when she was doing quality control work to tell him that she passed the diving test and he offers to take her out to celebrate, they end up at the club owned by Dexter Styles and he sends a henchman to bring her to him.
		- He tells her to ditch her date and that he'll drive her home.   In the car it becomes clear that they both want each other.  He drives her to a boat house and they have sex there before falling asleep.  In the morning Anna tells him he real name is Kerrigan and asks if her father worked for him.   They fight and she gets out of the car and he drives off.
		- Later she sees his car outside of the naval yard and he tells her he knows where her father is and asks if she can get the diving gear.  It becomes clear that Eddie's body was ditched in the ocean, but Dexter will help her find the spot.
		- Dexter meets with his father in law and tells him that he is interested in being more legitimate, perhaps getting into banking.  His father in law kind of shoots down this idea saying that he's already made his choice and its not really possible to go back.
		- At this point in the story we begin to hear scenes from Eddies perspective, in the present, not in the past.   He's been working for years as a merchant marine and has just been promoted to 3rd officer on a ship that is taking tanks and other stuff from San Francisco to Africa.
		- Dexter gets a boat, Anna gets her two friends to help her and they go out to the place where Eddie's body was tossed.  At no point do Anna and Dexter talk about why Dexter knows where the body is or why he was killed.   When they get to the spot Anna decends and starts searching in total darkness.  Dexter starts chatting with the other divers and then suddenly demands that they let him go down to.  They try to tell him its too dangerous but he goes all gangster scary on them and they send him down.  He and Anna can talk to each other when they put their helmets together and she gives him instructions.   She eventually finds chains (which Dexter suggested would be there), and after some digging around finds her father's pocket watch (which we had learned he had gotten in his boyhood while growing up in a boys home in the Bronx).
		- During the ascent Dexter goes up to quickly and almost doesn't make it back in the boat.   They eventually get him in and everyone tries to tell him to go back down and ascend more slowly but he blows them off saying that he feels fine.   There is no discussion at all with Anna and Dexter at this point.
		- In the next scene, Dexter is coming home from the night out.  When he gets home he suspects something is up with his wife who is already awake and getting dolled up.  He discovers that she is meeting an old boyfriend for bridge.   He pushes her to say what she is thinking and at some point she says "you are off your game, my father said so".  This really staggers Dexter who sends her off on her date.   Dexter begins to wonder if he's suffering from the bends.
		- He later gets a call from one of Mr Q's sons who tells him that there is someone at the boat house.   He drives there and discovers that its an insolent relative of Mr. Q's that he was told to look after but sent out.    As it becomes apparent that this guy may have the blessing to kill (or at least make it clear he's now equal to) Dexter, we also learn that this is the same spot where Dexter took care of Eddie.   He poured Eddie a shot and Eddie quickly passed out.  They then tied him up in chains and dumped him in the ocean.  Dexter doesn't take the shot offered him but in the ensuing struggle he is shot in the back.
		- We then hear Eddie's side of the story.   He suspected that this might happen and so he hid a lock pick on him and only pretended to drink the shot and pass out.   After being dumped overboard he got out of the chains and swam away almost dying before washing up on Staten Island where a fisherman and his wife nursed him back to health.   As soon as he was able he went to the docks and walked onto a Brazilian steamer in the coal room...the beginning of his new anonymous life at sea.    At no point do they say WHY Eddie was in trouble with Dexter.   We learned that Eddie was basically and eyes and ears man for Dexter, watching what his employees, and later his competitors did and reporting back to Dexter.   At one point he was in Miami and saw his old Irish mob guy come in and show fealty to an Italian casino man.   Eddie DIDN'T share this with Dexter, and the mob boss was later executed, but it wasn't clear if this was the sin or if so how Dexter found out about it.
		- While we are hearing the past story of Eddie escaping drowning we are also hearing the current story of Eddie's sea voyage around Africa.   There ship is attacked by U-Boats and the crew abandons ship.  Eddie spends weeks floating on a raft with little food and water.
		- Back to Anna who realizes she is pregant with Dexter's child the same day that she reads in the paper that his body was found.   She starts to get an abortion but stops at the last minute, instead going to to her aunt Bianca, who tells her that she should go to the Nuns and give up the baby or get someone to marry her quickly.   They talk about Mr. Vonn but before deciding go for a walk.   Anna tells Bianca that she has gotten a letter from Eddie and Bianca says that she's been getting money from Eddie all along while pretending she had rich boyfriends.   Anna decides to move to California and tell everyone that she was married to a soldier who died in the war.   Bianca decides to come with her and her dive boss calls the base in California saying they should hire her.
		- By the time they get to California she is too pregnant to work so she and Bianca scrape by waiting for the baby to come.   Afterwards she goes to the naval base and while no one knows about the recommendation, the base is run by some guys that she gave a tour to in Brooklyn so they hire her.   Bianca settles down as the main caretaker to the baby (named Leon, who we learned earlier was the name of a boy that 14 year old Anna had sex with a few times).   Eddie reappears, and while Anna sends him away at first they unite at the end of the book.  We also learn that Agnes has left Minnesota and is working as a nurse somewhere in Europe.
		- The end.
	- Permanent notes
		- I'm VERY frustrated to not know what Eddie did to get himself killed
		- THe audio book had three different narrators for each of the point of views for the book.
		- This was SO different than [[Welcome to the Goon Squad]] the only other book by Jennifer Egan that I've read.  The storytelling was complicated jumping around in time and point of view but it definitely held my interest.
		- The book got mixed reviews.  Entertainment Weekly gave the work a B+ rating, observing that the writing was not cohesive because it contained too many "Great American Novels" with the themes of "moody gangster noir; sweeping WWII romance; classic New York immigrants’ tale; timeless story of the sea.  I agree that it was all of these things, but it kind of worked for me.