title:: The Lacuna
author:: [[Barbara Kingsolver]]
status:: read
type:: #book
format:: audio
year:: 2009
acquired:: library/libby
topics::
genre:: #historical_fiction
tags:: [[Frida Kahlo]] [[Diego Rivera]] [[Leon Trotsky]] 
icon:: 📖
url::
recommendedBy::
start:: [[Mar 1st, 2022]]
finish:: [[Mar 28th, 2022]]
rating:: ⭐️
digested::

	- Quotes
	- Liked
	- Summary
		- Interesting fictional story about a guy who grew up in Mexico working as a cook and typist for [[Diego Rivera]], [[Frida Kahlo]] and [[Leon Trotsky]].
		- In one section he is back in the US high school during the Hoover administration.  At the time a large number of WWI veterans called the [Bonus Army](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bonus_Army) we camped out demanding to get the bonus they were promised for serving.  At some point Hoover authorized the use of force to disperse them.
		- After Trotksy was killed in Mexico, the character moved to the US and settled in Ashville, NC where he wrote novels set in ancient Mexico.   He eventually is brought before the McCarthy era committees and is declared a communist.
		- In the end his secretary takes him back to Mexico where he swims in the beach he lived near as a child.   There he holds his breath long enough to swim through a small cave (The Lacuna).   He's presumed dead but the secretary later receives a trunk from Frida Kahlo's estate that includes a cryptic note making it sound like he is alive, as well as the "lost" diary from his childhood where she learns of the Lacuna.
		- The story is her collection of his diaries interspersed with her own memories.   She ends by saying she's unsure that he would have wanted this so she leaves instructions for it to be locked up for 50 years.
	- Permanent notes
		- We listened to this as an audio book on our cross-country drive, but lost interest.  I finished it when we got home.  The narration was by Barbara Kingsolver