title:: The Echo Maker
author:: [[Richard Powers]] 
status:: read
type:: #book
format:: audio
year:: 2006
acquired:: library/libby 
topics::
genre::
tags:: #Nebraska #cranes
icon:: 📖
url:: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Echo_Maker
recommendedBy::
start:: [[Jul 2nd, 2022]] 
finish:: [[Jul 11th, 2022]] 
rating:: ⭐️
digested::

	- Quotes
	- Liked
	- Summary
		- The books (20 hours long) is set primarily in Kearny Nebraska home to the [Sandhill crane - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sandhill_crane) migration (which I knew nothing about before reading this).   At the very beginning of the story Mark Schluter is in a traffic accident where his truck flips over.   He seems to be recovering OK, but he starts getting pressure built up in his brain which they end up releasing with a tap.  Meanwhile his sister Karen hears about his accident and comes to see him.   In his room she finds a note written in a spidery handwriting that says "“I am No One/but Tonight on North Line Road/GOD led me to you/so You could Live/and bring back someone else”.   She asks the hospital staff who could have brought it but they say no one has been in there besides her.
		- While Mark is recovering police come and interview Karen.  They have a theory that other cars were involved in the accident and that Mark might have been racing.  She decides to not show them the note because she doesn't want to lose it.   When Mark wakes up he doesn't believe that Karen is really his sister, but someone impersonating her.   The neurologist describes this as Capgras syndrome.
		- As Mark begins his recovery we meet a few other characters.  His two gamer buddies stop by.   An old girlfriend, Bonnie, comes and visits, and we are also introduces to Barbara an aid in the hospital who everyone thinks is amazing.   Karen also reconnects with a former boyfriend Daniel who works for a sanctuary trying to protect the river for the Crane migration.
		- While Mark physically recovers he refuses to accept Karen.  She is so freaked out she writes to Gerald Weber who writes books about strange brain problems and is probably modeled after [[Oliver Sacks]].  Weber is at the height of his popularity but surprises everyone (including his wife), by deciding to visit.   Mark immediatly trusts him (and calls him Shrinky).  He interviews him but then leaves town after a few days, recommending occupational therapy.
		- A year passes.  This book is really long. Stuff happens but doesn't happen.  Mark recovers but becomes obsessed with the note thinking that its the key to understanding what happens to him.  He becomes convinced that his house and his dog are replacements too.   He gets Bonnie to take him to churches all over town to try to identify the note writer, and also gets a local true crime show to do an episode about him.
		- Karen moves in with Daniel and becomes involved in the crane sancutary but also meets up with another old boyfriend who is married and is a developer.   They kind of get back together but she is also digging for info on what he is doing so that the Crane sanctuary can use that intel to prevent them from ruining the river further.   We also learn in bits and pieces that the two buddies were at the crash.   It is finally revealed that they SAW Mark flip but didn't cause it, instead driving to town to call it in.
		- Meanwhile Barbara keeps stopping by the house and taking care of Mark.   No one can figure out why this amazing woman is doing this menial low paying job and giving Mark so much extra attention.
		- As Mark's paranoia grows Weber comes back at some point and "connects" with Barbara.  They go out to the bar that Mark was at before his crash and dance.   Weber flies home and tells his wife about it.   He recommends that Mark take some kind of anti-psychotic.
		- At a town meeting to debate water writes for the new development Daniel meets Barbara.  He recognizes her voice.   The developers are very convincing that they are just trying to make a nice bird sancutary.   Barbara asks what are they doing with that land and all those water rights the rest of the year.    Later after Daniel quits the sanctuary who have decided to work WITH the developers, Karen tells him she knows that their long term goal is to build a water park.  Daniel doesn't care that she was cheating on him, but can't believe that she is working with Barbara who he believes is an investigator working for the developers because she interviewed him on the phone last year.
		- Mark's paranoia grows.  He ODs on his anti-psychotics.  Karen calls Weber who returns much to his wife's chagrin.  He says hi to Mark and then connects with Barbara.  They finally go out to see the cranes together and drive around for a couple of hundred miles toying with the idea of running away together.  It comes out that Barbara was an investigative journalist and SHE was on on the road the night of Mark's accident.  Mark swerved to avoid her.   She came to see him in the hospital when he had a tube in his throat and Mark wrote that note to her.  The End.
	- Permanent notes
		- I didn't realize this til I started listening, but I feel a connection to this book as someone who also was in a car crash on a Nebraska highway, back in 1993 or so...
		- I suspect this is my last read of a [[Richard Powers]] book.   You can see that he was beginning to get more into environmental stuff, but they are all just too long!
		- Richard Powers wrote most of _The Echo Make_r on a tablet PC using voice recognition software. He says, "I’ve always wanted the freedom to be completely disembodied when I’m writing, to feel as if I’m in a pure compositional state. Typing is a highly unnatural activity, and your writing style ends up reflecting the cognitive shackles."