title:: The Lifters
author:: [[Dave Eggers]]
status:: read
type:: #book
format:: audio
year:: 2018
acquired:: library/libby
topics::
genre:: #young_adult
tags::
icon:: 📖
url::
recommendedBy::
start:: [[Apr 12th, 2022]]
finish:: [[Apr 14th, 2022]]
rating:: ⭐️
digested::

	- Quotes
	- Liked
	- Summary
		- A nice palate cleanser from after all the [[Octavia Butler]] this short novel seems pretty fun so far (about 1/3 in)
		- The story is about a middle schooler who moves to a new town with a dad that has to find a job,  his mom in a wheelchair and his younger sister.   It's almost fantastic in many ways and reminded me of [[Neil Gaiman]].   There was a point where the narrator said something like "This is not a story where kids in school are mean to the main character.  This is a story where they ignore him".
		- Granite Flowerbottom (Gran) is the protagonist being ignored.  A girl named Catalina Catalan talks to him and as he tries to learn more about her he realizes that she goes through invisible doors into the underground.
		- Meanwhile Gran also befriends "The Duke" who is like the janitor at the school.  He tells Gran about how their town (named Carousel) used to be famous for making carousels but that the factory fell into a sinkhole.
		- In fact sinkholes are a problem.   Gran learns that Catalina has a door handle which allows her to open doors into the ground.  He finds one himself (an old horseshoe from his grandfather's attic) and learns that there are huge tunnels under the ground and Catalina goes around propping up the ceilings so more of the town doesnt fall into a sinkhole.  She periodically gets phone calls from the Regional Manager who gives her instructions.
		- The holes are made by a malicious underground wind called "The Hollows" which feed on despair.  As the town's economic troubles have worsened the Hollows have gotten stronger.   Gran eventually is promoted to become a Lifter and goes to the Hemispheric convention of Lifters in the center of the earth.  There he and Catalina learn that The Duke was the Regional Manager and has now been promoted the boss of the Hemisphere.
		- The book wraps up quickly as Catalina and Gran dig out old carousel horses from the tunnels which the town fixes up.   Carousel is back, the town gets hope and the Hollows lose their power.
		- Funny side story, all over towns are signs that say "Yes on Props P&S, No on H&M" or vice versa.  It turns out P&S are to raise money for Parks and Schools, but another contingent believe that all the towns problems are cause by malicious Moose(s?) and the town should by a Helicopter to look for Moose 24 hours a day.  When P&S wins the day the guy who drove the H&M campaign is bitter but his counterpart warms his heart by inviting him to share an ice cream sandwich.
	- Permanent notes