title:: Homo Deus
author:: [[Yuval Noah Harari]]
status:: read
type:: #book
format::
year::
acquired:: 
topics::
genre::
tags::
icon:: 📖
url::
recommendedBy::
start:: [[Jun 1st, 2022]] 
finish:: [[Jun 13th, 2022]] 
rating:: ⭐️
digested::

	- Quotes
		- For the first time in history, more people die today from eating too much than from eating too little; more people die from old age than from infectious diseases; and more people commit suicide than are killed by soldiers, terrorists and criminals combined.
		- If modernity has a motto it is “shit happens“
		- Humans are in danger of losing their economic value because intelligence is decoupling from consciousness.
	- Liked
	- Summary
		- The first chapter lays out that for almost all human society we have struggled against famine pestilence and war. Now these three things are essentially conquered at least statistically. now human attentions are going to turn to how can we be happier or how can we live longer enhance at the idea of it through bio engineering we will evolve into something that’s not even human something that we can’t even comprehend.  Well he doesn’t mention it I think the idea that long life and awesome gene modification technology that makes us strong and smart he’s going to exacerbate the difference between classes and such a way that it may bring back some of the old problems
		- So as man strives to get to the next stage of evolution, to be something more than just human, what can we expect of the humans that remain? In the second chapter reviews humans relationships with animals going back to a time when religions were animistic and everything had value to the introduction of theism that put humans above all animals to eventually even the humanistic religions where science replaces God but humans are still at the top of the heap, I wonder if he is a vegetarian?
		- The 3rd chapter talks about the scientific search for the "human spark" or consiousness.   Its not that different from the previous chapter arguing to some degree that its unlikely that animals don't have feelings like humans do.   Theres a good description of the Turning test and then he talks about how Alan Turing was convicted of homesexuality, chemically castrated and then committed suicide.  He said the Turing Test was what any gay man in 1950s Britain already knew, how to make other people think you are straight (or sentient).  He spends a lot more time talking about how animals are similar to humans and that I have emotions console problems things like that, it comes back to a theme that he introduced in sapiens. The thing that makes humans unique is our ability to have mass belief fictions like countries religions and money. 
		  this is the thing that has allowed us to cooperate in groups larger than 150 that has made us so different than animals.
		- These “subjective webs” were initially limited and complexity and range based on the fact that everything had to be kept in peoples heads. Introduction of writing change this an allowed the Webster become much more complex and much more for reaching.
		- Over time religion and states came to dictate almost all aspects of life.  In the last few generations as science has progressed “humanism” has helped define the balance between science and religion.  Yuval believes that in the coming years this balance is likely to change
		- Religion and state provided structure for humans.  We are all actors in a play and everything happens for a reason   Things will work out for the best.  If not here at least in the afterlife.   With advances in science, the introduction of credit, and economies that depend on growth, religion becomes less of a driving force in society and is replaced by humanism.
		- In the 20th century there are three competing types of humanism socialism, liberalism,  And evolutionism. In Socialism the question for any choices how does it impacts society. With liberalism focuses on the individual human rights and the market is always right. With evolutionism the idea is that even songs humans are better than other humans and that it’s good to have wars or concentration camps or whatever to involve and improve the species. From much of the 20th century fascism and communist states were everywhere, but by the end of the century liberalism pretty much dominated everywhere with a focus on individuals right to vote and the market for the customer is always right. (I think it’s worth noting the fascism seems to be making it come back in the early 21st century)
		- Yuval postulates that liberalism worked because individuals were needed to work in the factories, fight on the battlefields, vote for the leaders, and keep driving the market economy. By giving people their “rights“ you got better soldiers and factory workers.
		-
	- Permanent notes
-