title:: Starman Jones
author:: [[Robert Heinlen]]
status:: read
type:: #book
format:: audio
year:: 1953
acquired:: libby/library
topics::
genre:: #speculative_fiction 
tags::
icon:: 📖
url:: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Starman_Jones
recommendedBy::
start:: [[Jun 14th, 2022]] 
finish:: [[Jun 21st, 2022]] 
rating:: ⭐️
digested::

	- Quotes
	- Liked
	- Summary
		- Max Jones lives on a farm in the Ozarks.  The story opens with him out in a field watching fancy trains ride through space age rings.   His mother calls him in to let him know she's married someone.  We learn that she's really his stepmother who is uselss and the the new husband plans to sell everything (a broken down farm, a house with no electricity, water or gas), including books that Max's uncle left him.
		- Max runs away taking the books with him.  His uncle was an "astrogator" who drove spaceships.  Life is completely controlled by guilds which are hereditary but Max fosters an idea that his uncle nomintated him for the astrogator guild.
		- On the way he meets a hobo named Sam who feeds him, and he tells Sam of his plan.   When he wakes up Sam has stolen his books and ID card.   Max ends up getting a ride with a trucker who hires him so he can pass checkpoints that require two truckers and brings him to Oklahoma City where the guild is.   He somehow talks his way in to meet the head of the guild  who knew his uncle.  It turns out that Sam was there before him.   The guild head takes a liking to Max but tells him his uncle did NOT nominate him to the guild, but offers him help getting into another guild.  Max refuses and gets back his uncles deposit money for the books.
		- Max runs into Sam again and despite the theft falls in with him again.  As he explains his dream of going to space, Sam convinces him that he can do it.  Sam turns out to have some experience and manages to forge documents that get Max and he onboard a starship as porters.
		- Max is assigned to take care of the animals on board including a "spider monkey" that belongs to Elly, the daughter of some super rich guy.  They become friends when she visits him, but word gets out and the powers that be want to tamp down the relationship, (or perhaps Elly pulled some strings), so Max is unexpectedly offered an apprenticeship to become a "chartsman" which is essentially a helper to the astrogator.
		- Max is enjoying himself, but Sam, who has gotten promoted to Sargent at Arms reminds him that they came on with forged papers.  If he does get promoted they'll find him out eventually.  Sam tells Max he is going to abandon ship on an new planet that is not yet controlled by the guilds and try a new life.  Max is resigned to joining him.
		- Max does well at work.  The astrogator in charge, Hendricks, knew his uncle and works with him, learning that Max has a photographic memory.   A big part of astrogation is doing complex math calculations and then converting the numbers into binary to put in the computer.   Max has memorized all of his uncle's tables and can do "see" the calculation.  Hendricks is impressed but tells him not skip looking the answer up in the tables.
		- Max's chartsman boss Kelly and Hendricks decide that Max really should be an apprentice astrogator so they promote him, much to the chagrin of the assistant astrogator Simes.   Shortly after Hendricks dies leaving Simes in charge.   He wants to get rid of Max but they are so short handed that he can't.  The aging captain of the ship comes to help them at their next "transition" (a jump through a quantum space wrinkle), Max realizes that the captain has transposed some digits and blown a calculation.  He calls it out but Simes refuses to say the captain is wrong.  On the next calculation there is a chance to correct it but again Simes doesn't do it.  They end up arriving in completely uncharted space.
		- Kelly believes that Simes is going to try to cover his trail in order to blame this on someone else and takes photos of all the charts they worked through.  He asks Max to stash one of the two copies of the film.  The captain never really recovers from this and disappears.  Sam breaks up a would-be mutiny and is (re)promoted to Sergeant at Arms.   The first officer takes command and they decide to navigate to a solar system with earth like planets so that they can colonize one of them since they are doubtful they can ever get back.
		- At first life is good on the new planet and one day Max and Elly decide to take a walk.  They are captured by man/horse creatures on the planet who tie them up with ropes and bring them back to a village where they see enslaved humanoids and butcher stations.   After several days, Sam finds them and using a blaster frees them from their bonds.  On the way back he explains that the creatures are in all out attack against the humans who have retreated to the space ship.   They need Max because Simes tried to take over and Sam killed him.   Upon arrival Max is made captain and the mate tells him that Simes hid the books in order to protect himself so Max's memory is the only thing that can get them back.
		- Oh yeah, and then Max miraculously got them back, turned himself in and lived happily ever after.  The end.
	- Permanent notes
		- After [[Octavia Butler]] and [[Yuval Noah Harari]] this feels like a nice break.   Classic story of kid from nowhere beating the odds to travel space...at least after the first couple of hours....I don't think they had a "Young Adult" category in 53, but this definitely feels like it.
		- I actually thought a bit about the biography of Julius Ceaser who the captain ended up deferring to when their ship was taken by pirates.
		- Its always interesting reading "old" science fiction and hearing what people thought technology would be like.   Trucks that run on anti-grav, intersteller starships, but still phones, and the need to convert everything to binary before putting it into a computer.