title::  Termination Shock
author:: [[Neal Stephenson]] 
status::  read
type:: #book
format:: audio
year:: 2021
acquired:: library/libby
topics:: #[[Global Warming]] 
genre:: #speculative_fiction 
tags::
icon:: 📖
url:: [Termination Shock (novel) - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Termination_Shock_(novel))
recommendedBy::
start:: [[Aug 2nd, 2022]] 
finish:: [[Aug 10th, 2022]] 
rating:: ⭐️
digested::

	- Quotes
		- Towards the end of the book there was this quote that I liked.  "The government of India announced formal cessation of their climate peackeeping action in the lawless, war torn, tribal region of west Texas"
		- In one scene, a political fixer from the Netherlands considers the sheer bigness of the Mississippi, a waterway as expansive as seven Rhines put together: “It was one of those insane statistics about the scale of America that had once made the United States seem like an omnipotent hyperpower and now made it seem like a
	- Liked
		- Yes, Neal Stephenson rambles and throws in a bunch of useless stuff just to show off how smart he is.   Still the guy can write a pretty good story.   Most of the time I listened to this it was a sweltering 90+ degrees in Albany and New York City.  Imagining a future where its basically impossible to go outside during the day in Houston wasn't that hard, and thinking about what we might do about it didn't seem like a bad way to spend 20 hours.
		- I thought this quote from [The New York Times review of Termination Shock](https://www.nytimes.com/2021/11/16/books/review/neal-stephenson-termination-shock.html) was pretty good:  "As you’d expect from a novel that spans just about every time zone on the planet, “Termination Shock” is about a lot of things, perhaps the most central of which is the intersection of hubris and technology, that place where the Anthropocene’s prettiest chimeras reside."
		- Here's another one:  "There’s a roughly 20-page section early on that explains exactly how the giant sulfur gun works, and I found it fascinating as a work of both imagination and pedantry."
	- Summary
		- Set in the  relatively near future this book opens with the queen of the Netherlands piloting a private jet to a meeting in Houston.   They are unable to land at Houston because the temperature is so high, so they are redirected to Waco where recent thunderstorms have reduced the temperature down to the safe zone.   The queen (who goes by Saskia) brings the plane onto the runway only to crash it because the runway is overrun by feral boars.   This introducts Saskia and her team to Rufus Grant (Red) who has been hunting one of these swine, which was a pet, but grew to 400 kilos and killed his daughter.
		- The book is about climate change and geo-engineering.  After things settle a bit in Texas Saskia meets TR Schmidt who has invited her and a few other representatives of places threatened by rising sea levels to the kickoff of his secret project to shoot sulfur into the atmosphere  with a "big gun" to reduce gobal warming.   The rest of the book is essentially a debate about geo-engineering as response to global warming and which countries will be winners and losers if such a thing were to happen.  "Termination Shock" is a term mentioned in the book (but never really discussed in detail), that hypothesizes that the downside of stopping something like a geo-engineering project might introduce even worse circumstances then the project itself.
		- While in the American South, one of Saskia's entourage, Villum(?) meets Bo a mysterious Chinese agent who knows what is up with TR and wonders why the Chinese weren't invited.  Villum tells Bo that he needs to "flirt with TR".
		- Finally, in a seperate plot thread we follow the antics of Deep Singh (aka "Laks") a Candian Sikh who has gone to India to learn more about stick fighting.  He is eventually pointed to India/China border where there is an official cease fire on the [Line of Actual Control](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Line_of_Actual_Control) (which is a real thing). The Chinese and Indians are stealing land back and forth while fighting with rocks and sticks.   Laks becomes an internet stud (nicknamed "Big Fish") and is managed by the Indian military until the Chinese blast him with some kind of sonic weapon.  He spends much of the book recovering from this and being engineered with extra senses like the ability to always know where he is in space and to "smell" danger.
		- Meanwhile, the world is debating what TR is doing in Texas.   When Saskia gets back to The Netherlands there is a "foam incident" where hundreds of surfers drowned on the coast.  While the country is reeling from this, Villum notices protesters that seem to be in favor of geo-engineering that date back decades.   As he digs deeper he realizes that this is all a cleverly manufactured thing.  The name of the group and the date of its founding align with a jacket he was wearing and the licence plate of his rental care when he met Bo in Louisiana.
		- Bo appears shortly thereafter and tells Villum that there will be a big storm in 3 weeks.  Villum claims that you can't predict weather that far out but Bo suggests its doable.  Villum follows up with the data guys and doubts this but there is in fact a very high tide scheduled for 3 weeks out and as they get closer it seems like there will also be a storm.  Rotterdam shuts a huge flood control gate in preparation but the wave is so big that it is blown away and its a huge disaster with thousands dead of displaced.  Shortly thereafter the right wing parties in The Netherlands embrace geo-engineering (which models show will be good for China).  Investigators begin to collect evidence that the wave was actually manufactured with explosives.   The governing coalition in The Netherland falls.
		- Before Villum can share this Saskia they are rocked by the appearance of a "deep fake" video that shows Saskia at the foam incident talking to people about how the government is acting too slowly.  While they are preparing a "this was a fake video", another fake video comes out with the Queen essentially suggesting that Villum should be the new prime minister.  He resigns and she abdicates.
		- The story picks up 8 months later when others from TR's original party have begun work on their own sulfur projects.   An island in Albania is set up with a similar gun type projection and a mine in Papua New Guinea (which was created by Royal Dutch Shell) is about to be repurposed as well.   Saskia attends a geo-engineering conference where a saudi prince gives her a hydrogen powered private jet and she gets a warning from a massad agent that TR should watch out for trouble.
		- In Papua New Guinea, the project is attacked by locals which causes Bo and the chinese to essentially come in and take over the island.  For some reason Villum decides to stay (he has a complicated background with Indonesia which led to a lot of NS showing off how much he knows about arcane stuff).  Meanwhile TR and Saskia head back to Texas.
		- Laks is back in the story!  Guess what?  The Indians are one of the losers (so far) and there is fear that the geo-engineering is upsetting the monsoon.  Laks is now a covert super agent who (along with a bunch of drones which are the ways his super powers work) is going to do something.
		- When Sakia and TR get back to Texas they are attacked by an ecectro-mangnetic pulse drone which ruins all the electronics on the ranch.  Indian drones come in and take everyone hostage while Laks goes around cutting down all the nets that catch the bullets that fall back to the ground after releasing sulfer for a team of videographers.  After this he is told to take a very heavy backpack and throw it down the elevator shaft where the gun operates under the mountain.  Oh no!  That is where TR and Saskia are holed up.
		- Don't worry Red (who Saskia had sex with back in the beginning at the urging of her daughter now the the new queen of the Netherlands) is off to the rescue.  He got hired by TR to be a "roaming security guy".  He ended up babysitting another of TRs pet projects which was to bring in Falconers to train Eagles to attack clones when he wasn't busy catching stray horses because he's a Comanche and they do stuff like that.  Red rides off with a shotgun chasing Laks.  The eagles mess with the drones that Red can't shoot down.  He's probably too late but Laks got bit by a rattlesnake, so they get close to each other right at the entrance to the elevator shaft.  Laks sees a person in there and has a monent of doubt about this plan.  He takes of the mysterious backpack.  Red shoots it.  Its fully of radioactive cobalt.  Laks fries up due to radiation poisining.  The rest of our heroes are rescued by the defective US government who are still good at covering up radiation leaks with sulfur and concrete.  Saskia and Red reunited and trade double entendres about their sexual reunion.  The End.
	- Permanent notes
		- Great narration by [[Edoardo Ballerini]]
