title:: Fledgeling
author:: [[Octavia Butler]]
status:: read
type:: #book
format:: audio
year:: 2005
acquired:: library/libby
topics::
genre:: #young_adult #speculative_fiction
tags::
icon:: 📖
url::
recommendedBy::
start:: [[Apr 15th, 2022]]
finish:: [[Apr 16th, 2022]]
rating:: ⭐️
digested::

	- Quotes
	- Liked
		- I thought it was funny that while the Ina didn't eat food, whenever the symbionts had a meal, Shori, as the narrator, described it in great detail.   I'm kind of sad that this is my last of the OB books.   There is one other [[Lilith's Brood]] trilogy, but after binging on OB for the last few months I need a break!
	- Summary
		- I think this is OB's last book, after getting writers block and depression while writing the [[Earthseed]] series.   This was definitely a break from the normal dystopia and depressing stuff, but it felt similar to both [[Kindred]] and the [[Earthseed]] books in that the main character, Shori, was a strong female "leader"
		- The story starts with the character waking up in a cave, blind and in pain, eventually killing something that comes in and eating it over a period of days while she recovers.   She has total amnesia and the first thing she remembers is that meat rots after a while, forcing her to leave the cave to look for other meat, where she realizes that her entire body is scarred with burn marks and her skull has been crushed.   Over time, she wanders into a community that has clearly been burned to the ground, remembers that she should wear clothes and finds some, and wanders out to a road where a man in a car stops and asks if she's ok.
		- We learn that Shori looks like a 10 year old girl, he stops for her and gets her into the car telling her he'll take her to a hospital when she can't say her name or where her home is.  She tries to escape the car an when he pulls her back she bites his had and licks his blood.   This escalates to where she bites his neck which is intensely pleasurable for both of them.   She tells him to take him to his house where she announces that she can have sex with him.
		- At the house she studies up on vampires and takes occasional blood meals from the neighbors all of who seem to like it.   When she feels well, she has her friend Wright drive her back to the community where he found her.  She is fast and strong with a powerful sense of scent and realizes that a man is pointing a gun at Wright, she saves him and realizes that the man is being controlled by someone like her.  They eventually meet Iosef who tells her that this community was her home, and that he is her father and she is indeed a vampire or an Ina as they call themselves.
		- They go back to Iosef's house and he explains more about Ina culture.   Ina typically take about 7 human symbionts who they feed on and help live up to 200 years with no disease.   Male and female Ina's live separately.   Shori is the result of some genetic experimentation and her matriarchacal group includes some black human women, which explains her black skin and ability to survive in the sun.   She doesn't like it but she can stay awake during the day unlike other Inas.  The theory is that someone doesn't like the genetic experimentation and destroyed Shori's home killing everyone who lived there.   Shori herself is actually 53 years old which is still too young to breed for Ina.  Iosef also explains their relationship with humans, explaining how an Ina and 7-10 humans form a sort of mutually beneficial family.   This is similar to the inter-species dependency in OB's [[Blood Child]]
		- Wright and Shori agree to live with Iosef and agree to have him pick them up in a week.  When he never shows they go back to his place to find it also burnt to the ground.  They pick up the two surviving symbiontsm, Celia, and Brook (which Shori must bite and "convert to herself" in order for them to survive now that they are addicted to Ina blood) and go to a safe house.   After less than 24 hours in the safe house it is also attacked by men with gasoline but Shori kills some and they survive.
		- Celia remembers when the family visited another Ina family, the Gordons, in California (they are in Washington where OB lived when she wrote this) and they go to them and tell them what happened.  When most of the elders are in Washington trying to get clues and help Shori get her inheritence the Gordon compound is attacked.   This time they repel the attack killing all the attackers but 3 who are all clearly humans under the control of another Ina family, the Silks.
		- They decide to have a "Council of Judgement" with elders from 13 Ina families to see if the Silks did this.  During this time it's clear the Silks are guilty, are racist and upset about the genetic experimentation, and are not alone in this belief.  After the first night of the council another Ina, Katharine Dahlman, has her symbiont kill on of Shori's symbionts.   Shori figures it out and asks her to be removed from the council.
		- Eventually it is time to vote and most on the council vote against the Silks and Katherine, but since it is not unanimous, there is no death penalty.  The Silks family is to be "dissolved" with all young sons adopted into other families in other countries.  Katherine is sentence to have her legs cut off (they grow back eventually), but she refuses to accept the judgement.  During a break she attempts to kill Shori or her symbionts with a gun, but Shori beats her after being very injured.  Katherine is beheaded, Shori recovers and the book ends with Katherine going to live with another Ina family to learn about her history and a general feeling that she is the future of the race.
	- Permanent notes