title:: The Wizard of Earthsea
author:: [[Ursula K. Le Guin]] 
status:: read
type:: #book
format:: ebook
year:: 1968
acquired:: library/libby
topics::
genre:: #fantasy
tags::
icon:: 📖
url:: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Wizard_of_Earthsea
recommendedBy::
start:: [[Jul 21st, 2022]] 
finish:: [[Jul 29th, 2022]] 
rating:: ⭐️
digested::

	- Quotes
	- Liked
		- This book had a hand drawn map illustrated by UKLG which I referred to a lot.   I found myself flashing back to memories of the 70s while reading this book, remembering my own reading of the Hobbit and seeing this (or a similar book) in the basement of my grandparents house in Moodus CT.
		- Probably my favorite part of this book was the afterward written by UKLG who herself said she liked fantasy stories but realized that wizards were alway old white men.  In this book she wanted to introduce the idea of a young man's origin story.   She talked a bit about how women were always there to be saved or be evil and then confessed that she did nothing to change that with this book, but was happy that for the careful reader you could see that the Wizards were not white.  Few covers of this book reflected this though.
	- Summary
		- This is the story of young man called SparrowHawk or Ged.  The book opens with him as a young teenager living in a small town on the island of Gont in the Earthsea archipelago.   His mother is gone and his father is a blacksmith.  One day he sees his Aunt who he is not close to, say something to a goat who has gotten on the roof of some shack, so the next day when he is out with a bunch of goats he tries saying the same thing and all the goats immediately come and huddle around him.  When the Aunt sees this she begins to train him in "wizardry" which essentially comes down to learning the "true names" of things and then telling them what to do.
		- While he is learning this skill, his village is attacked by people like Vikings from another island.   The villagers are hopelessly outnumbered but prepare to fight.  SparrowHawk uses his powers to bring down a fog on the village which completely confuses the invaders.  Some walk off of cliffs, some are killed by villagers familiar with the terrain.  Eventually the attack is repelled with few casualties.
		- When word of this gets out the wizard of the island, Ogion, comes to town and offers to take him on as a student.  He gives him his true name "Ged" which of course could be used by other wizards to control him.  Ogion is a wandering hippy dude living pretty simply and Ged is frustrated by the pace of his learning when he meets a girl in a meadow who asks him to show off some of his tricks and isn't that impressed. Ogion offers to send him to the island of Roke where the wizard training school is and Ged accepts, making his way there by working as a rower in the pit of a boat.  Its his first time seeing the sea and leaving the island.
		- When Ged gets to the school he learns that Ogion has written him a compelling reference and he quickly becomes one of the best students, although he is prideful and generally remains aloof.  There he meets Jasper who is is foil but also befriends another wizard a few years older named Vetch.  As the years go by Jasper continues to taunt him and he tries to amaze him by doing a spell that pulls some type of a shadow from the netherworld and it takes the grand mage of the island to save him (who dies in the process).   After this Ged is much quieter and haunted by the shadow.   The new mage tells him that the Shadow has no name but will continue to follow him and try to take over his body.  After he graduates he is sent to some small islands who need protection from a dragon on a neighboring island who has had babies which will eventually start attacking the island for human babies to eat.
		- On the island Ged befriends one of the fishermen there, but learns that the Shadow is still chasing him.    His friend's son gets sick and Ged can't save him.  Realizing that he's not going to be able to have a "normal wizard live" with this shadow he goes to the island with the dragon and "guesses" the dragons name, telling it that he can't go to the island, thus completing his task.   He then tries to go back to Roke but winds prevent him from getting there despite his own magical ability to make favorable winds.   He instead gets a lift on a ship going to Osskil where it is rumored there are wizards more familiar with darker powers.  The captain of the ship is unimpressed by his being a wizard and he must row with slaves to earn his passage.  There he makes the aquaintance of another rower who tries to provoke him.   Once on the island he's unsure where to go and this rower offers to lead him.  They walk a long time in the snow and mist, and eventually the rower turns and Ged sees that the shadow has taken over his body.  THe shadow says his name and Ged can only run away.   He eventually finds refuge in a dark castle.
		- There he meets Serret, the lady of the castle who turns out to be the same girl that he met in the meadow on Gont.  She shows him the Stone of Terrenon and says that if he speaks to it he can have limitless power.  Ged realizes that the place is full of ancient and dark magic and refuses.   He is attacked by creatures of the castle and he transforms into a falcon to escape, flying back to Gont to seek council from Ogion.
		- Ogion greets him warmly but essentially says that he is going to need to face this shadow, insisting that all creatures have a name.   Ged gets a small rowboat and begins to sail back towards Osskil, trusting his connection to the shadow and his belief that the shadow is also looking for him.    He senses now that the tables have turned and now that he is the hunter the shadow is running from him.   As he chases the shadown it leads him through fog into a fjord that runs the ship aground.   Ged barely survives the incident and is forced to hold the broken pieces of the boat together with magic and try to find help.  He lands on the island where Vetch lives, meets his sister and gets a nice new boat (though still just an open boat).  Vetch insists on joining him (he was there when he first summoned the shadow).  They sail and sail beyond the known lands of the archipelago.  Eventually Get gets out of the boat and wrestles with the shadow naming it Ged.  They merge and Ged is victorious, returning with Vetch back to his Island.   The End.
	- Permanent notes
		- Loved [[The Left Hand of Darkness]] so much I wanted to read something else by [[Ursula K. Le Guin]] while on vacation in Canada.  The library didn't have any of the Hainish stories, so decided to read the first book of the Earthsea trilogy which is a very YA fantasy story.
		- Despite my comments above, this was pretty D&D fantasy.   I described it to [[Elly OScanlon]] as Harry Potter in 1960.   I won't be reading the remaining 5 books in the series, but it was helpful having this background as it played into some of the stories in [[The Unreal and the Real - Volume 2 Outer Space, Inner Lands]]