title:: Dracula
author:: [[Bram Stoker]]
status:: read
type:: #book
format:: audio
year:: 1897
acquired:: libby/library
topics:: #young_adult 
genre:: #horror
tags::
icon:: 📖
url:: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dracula
recommendedBy::
start:: [[May 1st, 2022]] 
finish:: [[May 11th, 2022]] 
rating:: ⭐️
digested::

	- Quotes
	- Liked
	- Summary
		- Almost 19 hours of audio book, this was a really interesting read/listen.   The pace is slow compared to anything written recently, and of course Dracula is built into our culture today, but I really enjoyed the beginning when Jonathan Harker first visits Dracula in Transylvania as his lawyer and it only slowly dawns on him that Dracula is a monster.   I'll confess I didn't completely understand how Harker escaped.  I think after he helped Dracula buy a house in England the plan was to keep him a prisoner in the castle so that the undead women there could feed on him, but I think he climbed out his window (after stealing some of Dracula's gold)and down the rocks of the castle wall eventually making it into a town where he was admitted to a mental hospital.
		- The style of the book is journal entries from Harker, his fiancee/wife Mina and Dr. Seward, one of the 3 men who proposed to Mina's friend Lucy who is turned by Dracula.   The other characters are Arthur Holmwood (who Lucy did agree to marry), Quincy Morris (an american she turned down), and of course old Professor Van Helsing who was Dr. Seward's teacher.   Another thing that confused me here was that, as the book went on Van Helsing seemed to know a lot about vampires, where they seemed to be completely novel in the early part of Harker's journal in transylvania.  Its not clear to me if all this "vampire lore" was simply history invented by Bram Stoker, now codified in our consiousness, or if the concept of vampires did exist before this novel.
		- Dr. Seward is a doctor at a "lunatic asylum" and writes journal entries about his patient Renfield who catches flys and spiders.  Meanwhile Mina journals about a summer visit to a seaside town with Lucy.   A strange ship shows up in the harbour where the entire crew is gone save the captain who is dead but has chained himself to the wheel.  When it is brought to shore a giant dog runs out.  Soon after Lucy, a sleepwalker, is found in the graveyard with bites on her neck.
		- Seward calls in his old professor to help with Lucy and they commence to calling in all the ex-suitors to give her transfusions.  No mention of blood type, you just need a strapping healthy male to give blood.  Despite the transfusions Lucy eventually dies.  Shortly thereafter little kids start showing up in the hospital with bites on their necks saying that a "Bloofer Lady" lure them in.   Van Helsing confides to Seward that he thinks this is Lucy.  They go visit her crypt and open her coffin in the night only to find it empty and to find a young kid in the cemetary.  The next day they open it again and she is in there looking beautiful.
		- Van Helsing decides he needs to enlist all three suitors to cut off Lucy's head, stuff the neck hole with garlic and drive a stake through her heart.  Suprisingly they all agree.  Meanwhile, Renfield is asking to be let out of the asylum and acting really lucid.   When they refuse to let him out, they find him beaten to a pulp the next day.   He somehow explains that Mina visited him as a shadow, and they quickly realize that Dracula is now turning her into his new vampire.  (I guess he only likes women).
		- The team commences to discover all the coffins that dracula has shipped to England and destroy them all including dracula.  They almost pull it off but Dracula escapes grabbing money on his way out.   The figure out that he has taken the last coffin and shipped it back to Transylvania.  Since Mina is turned (but still on the good guys team) they hypnotize her at sunset and sundown and try to figure out where Dracula is.  At some point they realize that if Mina can see what Dracula is doing, then maybe Dracula can also see what Mina is doing, but that never really becomes a plot point.
		- Anyhow, they make there way to Hungary to try to intercept Dracula's ship, but he's a step ahead of them and has arranged to have his coffin moved to a river ship heading to transylvania.   They split up with a couple of the men following by river, others chasing by horse, and Van Helsing and Mina in a carraige where Mina is bcoming more and more undead and Van Helsing is realizing that he can lock her in a circle of consecrated host dust.
		- Somehow Van Helsing gets to Dracula's castle first, and goes inside and finds all of his other undead ladies in their coffins and beheads and stakes them, and then the gang arrives chasing a group of gypsies how are bringing Dracula's coffin back to the castle.  Its almost sunset and the gypsies are fighting them.  Gunplay ensues, they get to the coffin just before sunset, open it and cut his head off, but Quincy is shot.   Dracula smiles as he goes out (maybe he was good after all?). Qunicy says he is happy to die saving the world from a monster.  The epilogue is years later with Mina and Harker's son Qunicy born the same day he died and Van Helsing saying that no one can ever know what they did.  The End.
	- Permanent notes
		- There were two voice actors for this book one male, JP Guimont, and one female Tavia Gilbert.  Their accents were so amazing really diferent for each character.  The only place it bugged me was when Tavia would do Van Helsing -- because it was from Mina's journal -- this was a bit disconcerting.   Somehow I liked both of them when they did Quincy, the american.  What can I say, an american accent, at 1.5 speed is the easiest to understand.