title::  We Were Liars
author:: [[E. Lockheart]]
status:: read
type:: #book
format:: paperback
year:: 2014
acquired:: chance
topics:: #wealth
genre:: #ya 
tags:: #ya
icon:: 📖
url:: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/We_Were_Liars
recommendedBy::
start:: [[Jul 19th, 2022]] 
finish:: [[Jul 21st, 2022]] 
rating:: ⭐️
digested::

	- Quotes
	- Liked
		- Liked is a strong word here, but this definitely had more twists and turns than your average YA book.  I also got to talk to Willow about it and as we talked to each other we uncovered additional sections of the story for each other.
		- The author wrote a long afterward that described her writing process.  One thing that I thought was interesting was that the whole idea of the kids being called "The Liars" got cut out in the editing process, but they kept the title.
	- Summary
		- Cadence Sinclair Eastman is our narrator and the eldest grandaughter in the old money Sinclair family, of which Harris is the Patriarch. The story is told over several summers of family visits to the private Sinclair family island not far from Martha's Vineyard.
		- Candence (Cady) tells the story of her age cohort, "the liars" who meet every summer.   She is the only daughter of of Penny, one of 3 Sinclair daughters.   Her Aunt Bess has four children Mirren, one of the liars, 2 twin boys, and her Aunt Carrie has one son Johnny who is also a liar.  In the first summer of the story (14 years old), Carrie who is recently divorced, shows up with her new boyfriend Ed and his nephew Gat who has become good friends with Johnny.  Ed and Gat are Pakistani.   During that first summer Cadence and Gat kind of fall in love.   When summer is over they all go back to their homes, Cadence in Vermont, Bess and Mirren in Boston, and Carrie, Johnny and Gat in NYC.  Apparently they have no phones or communication during the year.
		- At the beginning of next summer Cady sees Gat on the Island but learns that he has a girlfriend in NYC.  She is morose and has little to no memory of what happend before the accident.  Then as she tells the story she has a swimming accident which leaves her with long term crippling migraines.   She recovers slowly becoming addicted to percocet.  The next summer she is "forced" to go to vacation with her estranged father and his new girlfriend staying at top tier hotels.  She emails the liars telling funny stories about what her dad ate but never hears back.
		- The next summer (17 now), she goes back to the Island and is suprised that her grandfather has replaced the old house with a sleek modern japanese style building.   She reconnects with the Liars who all move into one of the mother's houses, while the mothers are all clearly jockying for position with their father for affection and inheritence.  Cady realized that all three mothers live on nothing but their trust fund and they all are trying to present their oldest children as the one who should be the prime inheritor.  Her grandfather keeps calling her Mirren.
		- Cady kind of reconnects with Gat, but Mirren keeps telling her its not a good idea.  Cady is set on figuring out the holes in her memory.  Eventually she realizes that the old family home is gone because there was a fire.  Then she remembers that she and the Liars set the fire.  They were mad because Harris was a racists.  Ed had proposed to Carrie but she wouldn't marry him because she would be cut out of the will if she did.  Gat points out to her that he is the only person of color on the Island besides some of the staff, who Cady realizes she can't even name.   Then she realizes that after they set the fire her grandmother's dogs were inside and dies.   Then she remembers that Mirren, Johnny and Gat all died in the fire.
		- Harris covered everything up, and the kids were just ghosts.  She says goodbye to the ghosts.  The End.
	- Permanent notes
		- Read this book because this is what Willow was reading while we were at [[Lake Wahwashkesh]].  We did end up having a pretty good conversation about it a couple of weeks later.
		- At first I didn't like this book because the main character, a 14-18 year old girl seemed incredibly weak, defining herself through her relationship with a boy.  Later on as the novel added more twists and turns it got interesting.  At the end of the day I thought that the narrator should have been in jail, but I liked the fact that, for a young adult book, it had shades of gray in it.
-
-
-
-