title:: The Every
author:: [[Dave Eggers]]
status:: read
type:: #book
format:: hardcover, kindle and audio!
year:: 2021
topics:: Sequel to [[The Circle]]
genre:: #speculative_fiction
tags::
icon:: 📖
url::
recommendedBy::
start:: [[Apr 24th, 2022]] 
finish:: [[May 28th, 2022]] 
rating:: ⭐️
digested::

	- Quotes
	- Liked
	- Summary
		- Set in an unspecified time in the near future, The Circle has acquired a big eCommerce company named after a South American rainforest (referred to only as "The Jungle" in the book) and renamed itself The Every.   With headquarters now on Treasure Island they control social media, phones, computers, cameras and all eCommerce.  Mae Holland the main character from the first books is now the CEO.  The evil Stenton has left the company and gone to work for Huawei in China where he is failing.
		- Delaney Wells is going through the interview process in the beginning of the book and we learn that she has been carefully grooming herself for the last several years to be an attractive Every character so that she can destroy it from within.  She lives with her friend Wes Makazian and his two moms near Ocean beach in a "trog house".   As SF (and the world) has become more monitored with cameras and listening devices everywhere, there are only a few Troglodyte (or "trog") holdouts.  Wes is a genius, but somewhat lazy programmer who Delaney has confided in.
		- Once Delaney is hired (and even in the interview process) she decides to start seeding the Every with ideas that are grosser and grosser afronts to privacy or individual choice.  In her interview she suggests an app that will measure the quality of your friendships and use AI to monitor all communications and tell you if your friend is lying or inauthentic.  AuthentiFriend (or "Friendy" as it is named when it is released) is considered a great idea.  The every even hires Wes who helped her build a proof of concept to work on it. (which worries Delaney because she doesn't think Wes is capable of guile).
		- Once hired Delaney goes on a rotation through different creepy Every divisions.  Her first one convinces people to send in all their precious family heirlooms which they scan and then destroy in an ecologically friendly way.  (By the end of the book this product is hacked and all the data is lost).   Another analyzes literature and movies and provides data on what people like that they sell to publishers and studios.  Delaney suggests they just relelease classics so that people will like them more.  Another, "Are You Sure" is a service that rates products by ecological soundness and "coolness".  Before buying something "Are you sure" subscribers can check if its approved.   "PrefCom" (?) is a tool that helps protect a users buying persona from changing over time by somehow preventing them from doing things contrary to their persona.  "Here Now" is the Alexa device  that never stops recording.  (Eggers does a hilarious thing where he explains how they swore that it wasn't doing that and then when they got caught swore that the data was never use, and then when they got caught swore that humans never saw the data, etc).   Delaney suggests that they use AI to determine if abuse is about to happen and then notify the police to show up proactively.
		- She is taken from rotation to rotation by Kiki who (like all good Everys) where 's her oval and is signed up with "Own Self" which helps her reach her goals (sleep, exercise, etc).  Kiki is always on the brink of losing it but is manically happy.   She's trying to improve her vocabulary so she throws random, in appropriate large words into her conversation and her Oval dings to reward her.  Throughout the book people are talking or doing something and their Ovals tell them its time to exercise so they stop and do wierd workouts for 2-3 minutes and then go back to their conversations.
		- Part of the new hire training is to organize some kind of an event for 40 random Everys.  Delaney (who was once a park ranger and grew up in the montains of Idaho) decides to do a trip up to Marin to see Sea Lions breeding on the beach.  It's a total disaster as all the woke Everys complain about everything along the way and on the way back the bus hits a sheep which is named and followed but eventually dies.   One of the Every's Soren does a retrospective of the event and starts a philosphy that says its bad for humans to every go anywhere or ever interact with animals.   This prompts a big "live on campus" movement so Delaney ends up moving into a "pod" with Soren, her friend Joan from AYS and another guy Francis.
		- There is a big homeless encampment outside the Every fence on Treasure Island so Francis decides to do something about it.  He and the podmates decide to go out and meet some of the people living there.  While Delaney sees it all, some guy bamboozles Francis into hooking him up with a couple of thousand phones, laptops and ovals which he promptly steals and goes to Canada with his friends.   Shortly thereafter, the area is bombed and Stenton is back offering security, suggesting that they use Here Now recordings to find out who did this.
		- Meanwhile Wes has fallen under the spell of the Every.  One of his Moms has a fall and they are forced to move out of the trog shed and into some planned senior housing.   His dog Hurricane who declined rapidly after he was no longer able to run on the beach because he wasn't chipped dies.  (In general pet ownership is considered a no-no by the woke Every).  He tells Delaney that he is building an app to track everyones Personal Carbon Impact which will be used to shame people.  (Shame is a big theme throughout the Every.  At one point a gay, anti-Every populist president candidate comes to the campus to make a speech but he can't take his eyes off of all the Everyones wearing tight lycra, which dooms his candidacy due to "eye shame").
		- So Wes is in the thrall of the Every.  Stenton is back (Joan called the bombing his Reichstag moment which shut everyone up at AYS) and Delaney is struggling with her sometimes belief that the Every COULD solve all the worlds problems and her revulsion from it.  Throughout it all she gets paper letters from her old college professor Argawal who is pleading with her to leave and telling her how horrible it is for humanity.
		- At this point Delaney is approached by Gabriel Chu a big honcho at the Every (in the "Gang of 40") who says that he knows she is working against it and tells her there is a larger underground and asks her to join.  Delaney isn't sure what to do.  He pushes her and says that "something big is happening" and asks he if she is joining.  That night there is another bombing and Delaney's pod is destroyed.  Soren dies.  She (and Joan and Francis although less so) is severely injured.  She spends weeks or months recovering.
		- When she recovers, she signs a waiver that exonerates the Every and is offered a meeting with Mae (who throughout the book is know to "not have any ideas").   Mae turns out to be really nice and caring, and offers to send her home to Idaho and asks her to organize a hike for them "off the grid".   Once in Idaho Delaney secretly drives 10 hours to see Argawal in Oregon who tells her that she has been hired by the Every.  Delaney freaks out and drives back to meet Mae for the hike.
		- On the hike she pitches Mae her boldest ideas yet.  The Every should take over all commerce so only Every approved products are sold.  The Every would be the only place to buy anything, prices would drop because vendors would have certainty, there would be no waste and consumers would commit to buy certain products.   She also pitches extending Wes' Persona Carbon Index score to a total score that simply rates all humans on everything.   Babies would start at 500 and every decision in their lives would impact the score with people getting to 1000 being perfect.  Mae asks what she calls it and she suggests "SumNum".  At this point they are at a beautiful waterfall by a cliff.  Mae pushes her off and goes back to the Every to tell everyone about her great ideas.   The End.
	- Permanent notes
		- I had this book digitally from the library, but I saw a video of Dave Eggers talking about how bad Amazon is and suggesting that people buy the book from a local independent bookseller.  I still have income so I did!
		- It was interesting having this book in ebook, hardcover and audio format.  For reading (with my eyes) I almost always wait until bedtime and then don't get far.  On audio however, I find myself listening almost any chance I can.  I just always wonder if I'm missing some images (like I did in [[Breakfast of Champions]] )
		- TODO - try to find out the names of all these creepy products in the every
		  created:: [[May 29th, 2022]]
		  deadline:: #someday 
		  done::
		  details:
			- First Detail