title:: The Left Hand of Darkness
author:: [[Ursula K. Le Guin]]
status:: readi
type:: #book
format:: ebook
year:: 1969
acquired:: library/libby
topics::
genre:: #speculative_fiction
tags::
icon:: 📖
url:: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Left_Hand_of_Darkness
recommendedBy::
start:: [[Jul 5th, 2022]] 
finish:: [[Jul 20th, 2022]] 
rating:: ⭐️
digested::

	- Quotes
	- Liked
	- Summary
		- Great story.  Its been a while since I "read" a book.
		- Genly Ai is the emmisary from the Ekumen, a confendaration of humans across 20 something planets to Gethen (or Winter) which knows nothing about these other worlds.  Gethen is a world that has never seen war.  While they have technology they have moved very very slowly in adopting it (for example while they have vehicles they tend to drive about 30mph).   The most unique thing about Gethen and the book is that the people there are asexual for most of the time, once a month entering "kemmer" where they become sexually active.  During this period a Gethenian may become male or female and during this period other Gethenians tend to want to mate.   (Among many other interesting things), an interesting aspect of this is that a single human can be both a mother and a father in their lifetime.
		- When the story picks up he has lived in one of the countries, Karhide, in Gethen for a couple of years.  The book begins with him attending a ceremony where the king is putting in a new keystone to a bridge, and Genly is about to finally get an audience with him.
		- The night before he meets with his sponsor Estraven who tells him that he can no longer sponsor him.  Karhides have a kind of unspoken set of social rules called *shrifgethor* which makes it difficult to communicate.   Ai begins to doubt that Estraven, the Prime Minister of Karhide, is really trying to help him.  Estraven tries to explain to him that to a King, the idea that there is a greater power than his may not be attractive.
		- The next day before Ai's meeting with Argavan, the king, Estraven is declared a traitor and exiled from Karhide.  The meeting doesn't go well and while Genly is not exiled or killed he isn't sure what to do.
		- For the remainder of the book we follow both characters along with bits of legend as well as journal entries from early Ekumen visitors who came to the planet without announcing themselves.  One of the most interesting of these is an exploration of how a society without the concept of "male" and "female" differs.
		- Estraven barely escapes to the neighboring country of Orgoreyn where he tries to lay the groundwork for Genly, while Genly visits the Fastness, an oracular cult.   He asks if Gethen will join the Ekumen within 5 years and they tell him that they will.  After this he decides to go to Orgoreyn as well.
		- Once in Orgoreyn he is picked up and treated as a VIP.   While Karhide is a kingdom, Orgoreyn is a beauracrocy with 33 regional leaders all vying for power.  Estraven has layed the groundwork for a party vying for power to push to accept Genly and the Ekumen.   Genly meets Estraven and even gives him some money that his partner smuggled to him, but he still doesn't trust him.   At the last moment things go wrong and the party in charge, essentially the secret police, arrest Genly and send him to a Siberia like camp where he is being drugged to prevent Kemmer and to confess to crimes, but these drugs are essentially killing him.
		- Estraven buys supplies and forges his way into the camp as a guard and manages to escape with Genly by pretending he is dead.  Once he comes to they discuss the next move.  Genly is a criminal in Orgoreyn and Extraven is a criminal in Karhide.  They decide to trek across the northern glacier back to Karhide something that perhaps no one has ever done.  Over the course of several months the two become friends and learn to communicate, although it becomes clear that Genly is a poor emissary since he can't get his head around Estravan and keeps thinking he is "too feminine".
		- Before Estravan left he managed to sent a message to Argavan telling him that the Orgoreynians had sent Genly to the labor camp.  When the Karhide government inquires about his well being they are told all is good.  Finally when they arrive in the Northern outposts of Karhide, they stop a the house of man that Estraven had once helped.  He tells the authorities and as they try to ski back to Orgoreyn, Estraven is killed, but not before Genly is able to call his ship and ask them to land on the planet.  Genly gets another audience with Argavan who now wants to invite the aliens to the planet, primarily because it makes him look more powerful than his rivals in Orgoreyn.
		- At the end of the book Genly visits the family of Estraven and presents them with his diary.  The End.
	- Permanent notes
		-