title:: A Swim in a Pond in the Rain
author:: [[George Saunders]]
status:: reading
type:: #book
format:: audio
year:: 2021
acquired:: library/libby
topics::
genre::
tags:: #literature
icon:: 📖
url:: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53487237-a-swim-in-a-pond-in-the-rain
recommendedBy::
start:: [[Jul 11th, 2022]] 
finish::
rating:: ⭐️
digested::

	- Quotes
	- Liked
	- Summary
		- The first chapter was an analysis of [[Anton Chekhov]]'s "In the Cart".   Its a pretty interesting approach.  He stops a page at a time and asks the reader to analyze what is going on.  Starting from zero idea what the story is about, how does the author set up a situation to make the reader want to keep going?
			- Question after the first page:
				- What do you know so far?
				- What are you curious about?
				- Where do you think the story is headed? or What bowling pins are in the air?
			- After a couple of more pages stop and ask?
				- Is it story yet?
			- What is a story?
				- A story is a linear temporal phenomenon.  Within the first few minutes we begin to form ideas about it.
				- A story is a set of incremental pulses that puts us in a new place relative to where we just were, helping to meet the expectations that we started to have or surprising us by turning in a different direction.
			- What is criticism?
				- Noticing how we respond to a work of art and getting better at articulating what those responses are.
			- The story itself is small and delicate.  A woman is riding in a cart into town thinking about how boring her life is.  A wealthy neighbor rides along with them and she wonders how he'd be different if he were her wife, which we as readers think might happen, but then he dissapears.  The cart stops in a pub where the patrons are rude, but the woman shrugs it off an "enjoys her tea".  As the cart makes it into town the woman is dazzled by the sunlight reflecting off of the train windows and she imagines she sees her dead mother.   She's momentarily happy.  The End.
	- Permanent notes
		- This appears to a sort of "writing seminar" in book form.   He introduces 7 Russian short stories, then gives oveviews of them with advice for writers?