title:: The Art of Racing in the Rain
author:: [[Garth Stein]]
status:: read
type:: #book
format:: audio
year:: 2008
acquired:: libby/library
topics::
genre:: #animals #dogs
tags::
icon:: 📖
url::
recommendedBy::
start:: [[May 12th, 2022]] 
finish:: [[May 14th, 2022]] 
rating:: ⭐️
digested::

	- Quotes
		- that which we manifest is before us
		- The car goes where your eyes go
	- Liked
	- Summary
		- Cute story told by the dog about a guy Denny who wants to be a race car driver.  He lives in Seattle with his wife Eve and their young daughter Zoey.  As he begins to get a few breaks and drive in some races (which means he's out of town a lot), we learn that Eve has brain cancer.
		- Eventually she is diagnosed with 6 months to live.  Her wealthy parents convince Denny that she'll need 24 hour nursing care and they are in a better position financially to provide it at their house.  He agrees.  Then they say that its better if Zoey stays there so she can get this time in while her Mom is still around.   While its clear why the didn't just invite Denny too -- because they don't like him, its never clear in the book what Eve thinks about all this.
		- Zoey still spends some time with Denny and he visits often.  At one point they go out to eastern Washington with a bunch of Eve's extended family for a ski vacation.   Amber a 15 year old niece (or something) gets a crush on Denny.  When he leaves early to drive back over the mountain before the pass gets closed due to a snowstorm she comes with them.  Its a hectic drive and when they get back 10 hours later she stays with Denny and tries to seduce him.  He says no and her dad comes and picks her up.
		- Eve dies.  Surprise! the grandparents want custoday of Zoey.  Denny tells them no.  Surprise!  He gets arrested the next day for statutory rape.  Zoey goes to live with the grandparents.  Denny loses all his money paying lawyers fighting them.  Whenever things go well something else bad happens (his lawyer gets promoted to judge and he gets another, shittier lawyer; Eve's partents sue him for child support, etc).  He sells the house and finally the dog, Enzo gets hit by a car and all his credit cards decline at the Vet.   He's ready to sign a deal where they get custody and he gets visitation when Enzo, the hero of the story steals the papers and pisses on them.  Denny decides to fight on.
		- A ray of hope.   The guy from Ferrari comes and offers Denny a job as a test driver with an apartment for him and Zoey in Italy.  He declines but the guy says he knows the situation and will wait for Denny.  Then he and Enzo see Amber in a coffee shop and Denny says that he's sorry that he rebuffed her and hopes she'll find love like he and Eve had.   At trial she recants.  Denny gets the ferarri job.  Enzo dies.  Years later Denny is a champion Forumla 1 driver and a guy comes with his little son Enzo who seems to be a natural race car drive.
	- Permanent notes
		- Kind of a throw away story, but it had its cute moments and its "message" about sticking to it and being prepared.   The dog that watches TV and is practicing to be a human was kind of charming.   There is a great scene in the end where in Enzo's head he is the only 3rd part witness who knows what happened between Denny and Amber.  He is brought to court and hooked up to a Stephen Hawking machine that gives voice to his thoughts where he gives an eloquent speech.