title::    The Unreal and the Real - Volume 2 Outer Space, Inner Lands
author:: [[Ursula K. Le Guin]] 
status:: read
type:: #book
format:: audio
year:: 2014
acquired:: library/libby
topics::
genre:: #speculative_fiction 
tags::
icon:: 📖
url::
recommendedBy::
start:: [[Jul 17th, 2022]] 
finish:: [[Jul 31st, 2022]] 
rating:: ⭐️
digested::

	- Quotes
	- Liked
		- I really grew to like the "Archaeologist" point of view of story telling where an outsider is trying to describe different kinds of (mostly human) people that will soon populate a story.  At first it takes e some getting used to as it doesn't feel like "story telling", but it's a great way to introduce interesting characters into some situation to get resolved.
		- I thought it was interesting that "The Matter of "Seggri" and "Solitude" were right next to each other as they both explored cultures where men and women were completely separate from each other.
	- Summary
		- In the introduction UKLG kind of makes fun of the terms science fiction and fantasy and tries to categorize all the stories in here.
		- The first story [[The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas]] [The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Ones_Who_Walk_Away_from_Omelas) from 1973 really struck me, mostly because I had just watched an episode of the new Star Trek series that is obviously based on it: https://collider.com/star-trek-strange-new-worlds-episode-6-who-is-first-servant/.   This is another example of UKLG using her anthropologist voice to tell us about a paradise world where everything is great except one thing, they keep a kid in the basement basically tortured the whole time.
		- "Semley's Necklace" was originally published in 1964 as [The Dowry of Angyar ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Dowry_of_Angyar) and is the very first story in the Hainish world.  This story examines a planet that has been visited by an advanced species.   One of the natives decides to find an old relic that belonged to her ancestors and ends up a travelling to a museum on another planet where it is now stored.  The people give it to her and she goes back but is surprised to find that the trip which took her only a couple of days in her mind took 40-60 years.  Her husband is now dead and her baby daughter is queen.
		- "Nine Lives" is the story of a a "clone" or 10 clones taken from the same people visiting two people on a mining outpost.  The non-clones struggle to connect with the 10.  At some point an accident kills all but one of the 10 and the remaining survivor struggles.
		- "Mazes" is the story of a mouse in a maze.  The mouse is of course sentient and can't understand why the human can't communicate with it properly.
		- "The First Contact with the Gorgonids" is a great story about an asshole loudmouth and his wife who are visiting Australia.  He's anxious to take some video of some native people and never realizes that the group they stumble upon are aliens.  They turn him to stone and the wife sells the video and has a comfortable living thereafter.
		- [The Shobies' Story - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Shobies%27_Story) is another story from the Hainish cycle.  I really liked this one as it takes the whole concept of light speed travel and time into a completely different place.  In the story 10 travelers of various ages from various worlds are going to the be first humans to travel with a new "Churten drive" which can ostensibly move a ship instantaneously.  For their test trip they go to an unexplored planet 17 light years away.  When they get there, all the characters experience something different.  Some don't see the planet.  Some visit it and are stranded.  The crew isn't sure what to do and none of the communications work.  Eventually they go back where 42 minutes have elapsed since they left.
		- "Betrayals" was kind of a throw away story to me.  In it an old woman who's daughter and grandchildren have left for another Hainish planet is living out her life as a religious aesthetic (but really we think she is just living out her live).  In the same town is also the man who started the revolution on the planet to eject the aliens.  He is now in disgrace but they connect with each other.
		- [The Matter of Seggri - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Matter_of_Seggri) - the longest story in the collection this is a collection of Ekumen missionary observations of the planet Seggri.  Here women outnumber men by 10-1 or so and live lives completely seperate from them.  Woman do everything, running all the businesses and generally living in multigenerational houses together.  Each town has a "fuckery" where woman can buy sexual services from men.  Most babies are girls, but some are boys who are taken care of by the women (and usually completely coddled) until they reach puberty.  Men live in "castles" where all their needs are taken care of and they focus exclusively on sports.  Castles compete against each other and the biggest stars in sports fetch the highest prices in the fuckery.   The observations extend over a long period of time and consist of individual stories.
			- The first story is the "discovery" of Seggri where the planet is described as above.   We get the impression that sometime after this aliens interfered with their culture which led to some bad things but it is never touched on.
			- The next story is from the first modern ekumenical missionaries, one male and one female.  We follow the female who struggles to be accepted as an adult who so plainly doesn't understand the societies rules.  As she learns more she begins to worry about her male partner and tries to see if he's OK.  While the first story made it sound like the men were kings and the women essentially slaves serving them, her perception is that the women have all the power and that the men live in a terrible cutthroat world where they must compete in sports for the benefit of the women, or die. We learn eventually that he was killed, and the next missionaries are all female.
			- In one story a wealthy woman becomes fond of a dancer who she patronizes at the fuckery.  He falls in love with her and wants to pass as a woman to be a servant in her household.   Even though he is good at impregnating women (and often with boys), he isn't good with anyone but her.  She eventually falls in love with another woman and moves in with her.  The guy shows up asking to live with them and the girlfriend calls the police who cart him away.   Later when they want to have a baby, they hear he is back in the fuckery still delivering a lot of boys, so she makes a date to see him.  She asks if he's OK and happy.  He says yes, but later attacks her with a knife.  He's caught and she learns that he will be "gelded".
			- In another story, we learn that the ekumenical influence has caused some bending of the rules.   Castle gates have been opened allowing men to leave and a few men are allowed in colleges.  We hear the story of one man who was there when all this started.   He loved growing up in his female household and was wholly unprepared for castle life where all the boys slept in barracks with the younger boys routinely molested by the older ones.  In his castle a resistance led by homosexual leaders sprang up.  When one of them was publically executed it resulted in a riot where all the members of the leader's faction were killed.   This resulted in the opening of the gates and he and a few others returned to their towns.  His family took him back in but they didn't know what to do with him.  Eventually one of the ekumenical historians wanted to talk to him to learn his story.  Through this relationship he was granted access to the college from which he was able to apply to be a missionary and leave the planet.
		- Solitude - is a very similar story to Seggri (and a bit of The Slience of Asonu).  Its told from the point of view of the daughter of an Ekumenical missionary.  The Ekumen has had a hard time communicating with the people of Solitude, almost all women who very rarely talk except to raise children.  Since she has two small children they decide to go and the kids are taken in by one of the "aunt colonies".   The boy who is a bit older eventually spends less time with the women and eventually goes of to live with some other men who seem to roam the hills much to the chagrin of his mother.  They agree to meet in several months time, but another man comes and tells the sister that there are gangs that will rape her if she comes.   Meanwhile the sister is connecting less and less with her mother.   The brother returns starving and beaten and the mother decides to return to the ship.  The daughter doesn't want to, but eventually succumbs.  On the ship she pleads to return and won't share her personal insights with the people studying the planet.  On board is a person from Gethen (the genderless planet in [[The Left Hand of Darkness]] ) and she relates to him.  He brokers a deal where the brother will return to Hain to study to become a missionary, while the mom will wait on the ship a year, while the daughter goes back to the planet.  She goes back and throws away the radio to communicate with the ship after the year.
		- The Wild Girls - was long, almost a novella about two nomadic girls whose camp was raided by city dwellers.   They are taken hostage with others and brought back to the city, along with younger kids including a baby who the invaders name shortly before she dies.  The two girls are brought up in the house of the leader of the raiding expedition who is grooming them to be his wife.  In the culture of the city "crown people", must marry "dirt people" (the aboriginals).  There is another class called "root people" who do all the work on the land owned by the crown people.   Over time the older sister gets used to the society and eventually marries the guy who stole them.  The younger sister however is soon courted by the guy who named the dead baby.  According to the aboriginal culture, once someone is named they need a proper burial or they will haunt them.   She doesn't want to marry this guy (who promises not to have sex with her until she is 15), but once the deal is set, everyone starts hearing a baby crying.  On the day of the wedding she kills the guy (who was trying to have sex with her).  For this she is thrown into a garbage pit.  Her sister, upon hearing this realizes that she will now become a ghost.  She is pregnant with the other guys baby but it doesn't come until the 10th month killing both of them in the birth.  The End.
		- The Fliers of Gy - Another anthropological story it tracks a culture where the people have feathers and generally reject technology even though they are part of the ekumen (I assume, its never called out explicity).  A small percentage of the Gy actually grow wings in a painful process.  Some of those with wings can fly but there is a random thing called "wing failure" where they just stop working.  Some with wings choose never to fly but have a rough life.  Others don't care about the risk.
		- The Silence of the Asonu is another anthropological story about a planet where the adults don't really speak.
		- The Ascent of the North Face is like a classic british explorers journal of a trip up a himalayan mountain with his sherpas.  At the end the mountain is also a house.
		- The Author of the Acacia Seeds is also kind of antropological.  It starts off talking about a message written by an ant and then goes into language of penguins, dolphins and other animals.  In the world of the book humans HAVE begun to understand "writing" from animals and the author theorizes that if this is possible, why not plants?  Why not rocks, to understand even the earth itself?
		- "The Wife's Story" is told by a woman who's husband is transformed.   He starts going out for the whole day and comes back smelling funny.  Then his baby daughter becomes afraid of him.  At first we think that he was a human who became some kind of monster, but as the transition is described we realize that he is turning INTO a human.  The wife is a wolf and when the husband transforms to a man she howls and brings out the other wolves who kill him.
		- The Rule of Names is a story from the [[The Wizard of Earthsea]] world. It starts with a description of a little town with it's wizard "Mr. Underhill" who lives under a hill and is a mediocre wizard at best.  There is a scene where the kids are in a class learning from at teacher about the power of names.  In the Earthsea world naming something gives you power over it so you never ask anyone or tell anyone your real name.  Mr Underhill is at this lesson and its assumed that isn't his real name but rather a description of where he lives.  At some point a young wizard arrives in town via a boat.  While Mr. Underhill hides he tells the story of a dragon that once stole lots of precious stones from his ancestral home.  When people went to find and kill the dragon they found him dead and all the treasure gone.  He has tracked this all to Mr Underhill who he thinks killed the dragon and now he is coming to get his family's treasure.  He can beat this guy because somehow he knows his real name.  When he approaches Underhill a dragon flies out.  In fact the dragon faked his own death and is disguised as Underhill.  The story ends with the dragon flying out, deciding to quite hiding, ready to eat some babies.  The End.
		- “Small Change” is about a girl whose Aunt and caretaker has just died.  As happens in many cultures she puts a coin under her tongue.   She sees her Aunt moving around in the afterlife, even seeing her sister (the girls mother).   After the funeral the girl is scared of being alone.  The story ends with her accompanying her Aunt into the afterlife where the Aunt bargains with the ferryman to take them both for the coin that she has.
		- “The Poacher” is about a kid who lives with an abusive father and weak stepmother.  His job is to hunt/forage in the forest daily for food.  As he learns the local forest he discovers a think hedge which he forages berries from.   One day while walking along the hedge he realizes it is a circle and he wonders what is on the other side.  He steals tools and begins to saw through the hedge taking months or years on this task.  Once through he discovers an enchanted castle where everyone is asleep.  He can eat the food in the kitchen and it is as it was the next day.  He lives there for a long time teaching himself to read.  In one of the rooms is the princess.  The story ends with him saying that one day a prince will come and wake her with a kiss, but he'll be long dead by then.
		- [Sur (short story) - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sur_(short_story)) was an interesting journal of an all female group that made it to the south pole around the same time that Shackleton was active ie: 1909 or something.  (Shackleton's book was called "South" and "Sur" is Spanish for south.  All the ladies were South American) I think this was originally published in the New Yorker in 1982
		- "She Unames Them" - VERY short story.  Maybe connected to the [[The Wizard of Earthsea]] universe where names have so much meaning?   Basically its just a list of things she unnames and then a woman walks away from her own family when she unnames herself.
	- Permanent notes
		- This is the "sci fi" second half of this collection of stories.